---
url: /post/5e42f44c-55e9-4de3-9d43-008729d18bac
date: 2013-09-17
title: "NSA."
---

Like most other geeks, and regular people that are conserned with security and privacy – I am looking into what I am going to do with the data I am storing in the cloud.



There is more or less two different places where I store a lot of data; Dropbox and iCloud. And a few places I store some data, OmniPrecense and Evernote.



First of all. I do not believe that neither the NSA or any of my cloud services provider would have any interest in my data. And secondly I do trust Dropbox, Apple and Google as much as you should trust a major company.



This is not about me doing anything secret. This is not about me not trusting big american companies. **This is about principles.**



So I started the process of figuring out what to do here, a few days ago. Or I started thinking about it in abstract ways many weeks ago. But, the doing part started yesterday.



The first question that popped into my head was: what the hell am I storing in the cloud? Dropbox: &#8211; 1Password keychain &#8211; More or less any file I have, or had for the last three years.



iCloud: &#8211; iOS backups &#8211; DayOne-data &#8211; And some other minor apps.



The next thing I started thinking about was: what should I do about this? And I&#8217;m not too sure yet. But, what I am going to do is to move everything that I do not have to store there away from Dropbox.



There is just three things I need to store on Dropbox: &#8211; 1Password &#8211; nvAlt textfiles &#8211; Files I share from my site, and files too large for e-mail.



iCloud is another story. The stuff I store there is already the bare minimum. So, there is not much I can or will do about it.



**Problem.** The problem with dropbox is that there is no &#8220;end-to-end&#8221; encryption. Example: I use backblaze to backup all of my files; but the only person in the world with access to my files there is me, from my account.



Dropbox is not doing this, because of their fancy web-frontend and all of that.



**Solutions.** There is not a lot of cheap and viable solutions for me right now. But, I will consider getting into (Transporter)[http://www.filetransporter.com] later.



I really hate having to remove 99% of my stuff from Dropbox, and I think I need to invest in some extra external drive and to upgrade my &#8220;On-site&#8221; backup plan beacuse of it.



Let&#8217;s see what the future brings us.



(#blog)