---
url: /post/74edd8a2-512d-4b9e-8ce6-1cb5d3a0048d
date: 2013-12-31
title: "Journaling."
---

I have been trying to write this piece about ten different times, during the last two weeks. This is intended to be a text that explains what journaling is, what I do, how to get started, and some of the tools I use.



## What is journaling?



This is one of the questions that have made this text very difficult to write. Journaling is what ever you want it to be. I know people that write about the weather, while others is writing about how they are feeling, and some are writing about what&#8217;s on their mind.



I often look at journaling like a private and unfiltered version of this blog and my twitter account.



## How to get started?



There are many things you can do. The simplest thing is to pick something simple that you want journal. Like taking a picture of your self every day, or just writing a few words about what&#8217;s on your mind.



One of the things that is important is to start with something very simple, that you can keep going.



Don&#8217;t do too much, and don&#8217;t do it too often.



## Tools & Apps.



There are a lot of apps and tools you can use to journal. You can use something like a simple document or text file, or you can use [Evernote][1], or you can use a dedicated app like [Day One][2] or [Mac journal][3].



Some people prefer to do it on their iPhone, iPad or Mac. Both Day One and Mac journal is available on all platforms. I prefer Day One. But both products are very good.



Other people prefer to do it old school, in notebooks. You have both formal journals with some area of text for every day in a year, two years, or even five years. This works great for some people. While others, like me think this is a bit too strict, and just use any kind of notebook and just write the date on top of the page.



## What I do.



Let&#8217;s run through some of the tools first. I write most of my journaling in a Field Notes notebook, or Moleskine before I transfer it into Day One later. But I sometimes write it straight into Day One, if that is the most practical way to do it.



The main reason I prefer to write things on paper first, is that it&#8217;s often faster, simpler; it also gives me a last chance to edit and tidy it up.



One of the reasons that I use Day One over some of the other great alternatives out there, is that it&#8217;s designed way better than any other journaling app out there. It makes it a joy to write journaling entries, adding pictures and organising them with tags.



**Things I put into Day One:** &#8211; I take a picture of myself every morning &#8211; I spend 5-15 minutes every morning writing what ever that happens to be on my mind. &#8211; I&#8217;ll also write If I have something on my mind that I don&#8217;t want to tweet or write about on my mind.



I never add pictures shot with my DSLR, funny or cool pictures from the internet to Day One. I add pictures from my DSLR to Lightroom, and cool pictures I find into Ember. But I do often add some of the pictures from my iPhone to Day One. For example a few of the pictures from an event, a party or when I was out drinking with some friends.



**Journaling is about collecting things that is important to you, and stuff that you don&#8217;t want to forget.**



## Some final tips.



Find out a few simple things that you want to add to your journal. You can expand it later, when you can a hold on it.



Make it easy for yourself. Don&#8217;t get into a &#8220;workflow&#8221; where you need to be on your iPhone, iPad or Mac to do it; or to use your overpriced notebook or $3000 fountain pen. Make sure you can journal, if you feel like it no matter if you are in your living room, office, the bus or waiting for someone at a coffee shop.



I recommend everyone to get an app like Day One. It makes it easy to add stuff like pictures and text. And you can add as little or much information you want to any given date. But I also recommend to have some pen and notebook you can have in your jacket or jeans. There are times when you can&#8217;t use your phone, and they run out of power.



(#blog)



 [1]: http://evernote.com

 [2]: http://dayoneapp.com

 [3]: https://www.marinersoftware.com/products/macjournal/