---
url: /post/c0b6c698-4f85-4dbe-b9b2-d477a4d3866f
date: 2013-10-04
title: "1Password 4 for OS X."
---

1Password is one of the most used apps across both my iOS and OS X devices. I never log into anything without going into 1Password on my iPhone and iPad; and rarely without using either browser plugins or the app on OS X.



This is one of the apps that I think should be included on any Mac or iOS device. This statement may be bold and I understand if you are sceptic regarding password management apps. To put it like this, 1Password is the only password management app that I have been able to stick with.



## Design



They have refreshed the design of their apps in this release, to match up with the same refresh they did with the iOS update a few months back. And it was about time they did this, both the OS X and iOS versions looked dated prior to their 4.0 releases.



I don&#8217;t think there is anything controversial in this release. Everyone who used the old version will recognize it; and like always: all new users will love both the app and the design.



## 1Password mini / Menubar item.



I have a yes, or no reliationship to menubar items. I think they are better than having apps in the dock that you need to have running all the time. And they are amazing for stuff you need to access quick; like dropbox, twitter clients etc. And this is a great new feature from 1Password.



## Audit section



This is the feature I have been craving in 1Password since I started using it in 2010(or 2011, I dont remember exactly when). This is just brilliant. It have a few key, and very important features: &#8211; List of all passwords that are not unique in your 1Password database. &#8211; Passwords that have not been changed in 3+ years, 1-3 years and 12-6 months. &#8211; Weak passwords



This alone would get me to upgrade. I can in just a few clicks right out of the box get a great overview of all the passwords I should change.



## iCloud vs Dropbox



I have not tested the iCloud sync, and I&#8217;m not sure if I am going to do it. There is one very good reason for this.



There have been a few situations where I&#8217;ve had some real issues with iCloud document storage. The result was that none of the applications was able to upload or download anything from iCloud. And every time this happened I had to go through a few levels of Apple support to get it sorted out.



This could in theory happen in Dropbox. But, dropbox is a much more open system. And I have a script that makes a copy from Dropbox to my local machine, every day. This means that I still have the data if Dropbox locks me out.



There is probably a way to do this in iCloud, but I dont want to do anything regarding my passwords and other important information in a unsupported way. 1Password might have a export option. Anyway, this is a part of my &#8220;dont store anything extermly important in iCloud&#8221;.



I recomend people to use Dropbox, if you need sync; and remember to have routines for making copies of it to a local location if you do sync.



Check out 1Password here[here][1]. You will find a trial versionn for the mac version there. They also have a windows version and an android reader app.



Sent from my iPad



(#blog)



 [1]: https://agilebits.com/onepassword