---
url: /post/b4de849f-3bc3-45e2-826f-a4116a88b609
date: 2013-12-12
title: "Day One sync"
---

Day One is a great journaling app for both iOS and OS X. You can store both images and text there; it even supports markdown. I store pictures, contents of my notebooks and random stuff I write.



iCloud sync used to work very well; and then it started to first not sync at all, and then it synced fine on my Macs, but it wouldn&#8217;t sync everything, just 1/3 of the data to the iOS devices. And today was the day where I pulled the plug and moved everything over to Dropbx.



I think I have reached a point, where I just store simple data like Contacts, Calendars, and apps that just store documents. PDFPen, Pages and Number work fine with iCloud. But it would not take me long to move it all off there if that don&#8217;t work anymore.



The problem with iCloud is that I can&#8217;t, and the developers can&#8217;t debug or do anything at all with anything. It is just a black-box in the middle. It is great when it works, and a fucking nightmare when it don&#8217;t.



One of the things I like about using Dropbox for apps like DayOne is that I can make a zip file of the whole DayOne folder on Dropbox, and just extract that into that folder and replace the file if something should go wrong. You can&#8217;t do that with iCloud, in any **supported** way.



The process of changing the sync-engine on something like Day One is not trivial. Or that is not that acurate, the process of doing the change could not have been made any easier on DayOne&#8217;s side. But it can take a long time to do the actualy syncing. The one to blame here is my internet provider.



It also seems like the Dropbox sync is faster, and it will sync in the background on iOS 7.



(#blog)