---
url: /post/0f486c90-bfcc-468f-85c1-0317b3aed982
date: 2014-05-14
title: "C’mon Dropbox!"
---

The importance of core business. Dropbox was a great service, they solved a big problem, syncing more or less flawlessly for a long time. But I have noticed that the OS X client have become more and more unreliable the last 12-18 months.



First of all, it&#8217;s slower. The speed wasn&#8217;t a problem in the old days, and it isn&#8217;t really a problem now; but I notice that the speed is worse.



The frustrating problem is that the client started to crash every now and then sometime the last year. And now it&#8217;s not my machine, this is just one of three Mac&#8217;s that I have experienced crashes.



The big problem is that the whole idea of dropbox isn&#8217;t running on my mac isn&#8217;t there. I have internet, and my Macbook Air are running – of course dropbox is syncing.



And then it goes a few weeks, and you realise it wasn&#8217;t running; and you need to fix 300 conflicted files in your nvALT folder.



My issue isn&#8217;t that Dropbox is slower, or that the client is buggier. My problem is that this are happening at the same moment that they are introducing a whole lot of new crap. That I don&#8217;t need or want. At the expense of the core service that made Dropbox famous.



We have the &#8220;Skype&#8221;-problem all over again.



Nothing annoys me more than to se a great service going to shit because of a lot of fancy crap their loyal and core audience don&#8217;t want.



(#blog)