---
url: /post/2cd8c9b5-8ea9-4dfa-abec-65a4b2604c06
date: 2014-12-24
title: "Najowrimo"
---

[About NaJoWriMo for January 2015 | National Journal Writing Month][1]:



> Whether you keep a traditional pen and paper journal, or a digital journal, the purpose of the National Journal Writing Month (NaJoWriMo) is for using the power of journaling to enhance and document your life.

> 

> Many studies have shown that journal writing can be therapeutic for your personal health, a creative outlet of self-expression, and way to document your life as you live it.

> 

> NaJoWriMo is based on the NaNoWriMo (National Novel Writing Month) challenge. NaJoWriMo is useful for new and veteran journal writers. This month-long challenge is great for those who want to get started with journal writing, but have been putting it off for various reasons. It’s also useful for frequent and veteran journal writers looking to use NaJoWriMo for improving their journal writing or focusing on a particular journal writing project. 



I found this via Patrick Rhone&#8217;s [The Cramped][2]<sup id="fnref-pat"><a href="#fn-pat" class="jetpack-footnote">1</a></sup>. I have joined in on NANOWRIMO once. It was a great experience to write something long, in a short time. I will without doubt join in on this. I might even get involved with the project at some point. Writer or not – you should try to join in on this.



(#blog)



<li id="fn-pat">

  A brilliant site, by a brilliant writer, about using analog tools.&#160;<a href="#fnref-pat">&#8617;</a> </fn></footnotes>



 [1]: http://najowrimo.org/welcome-to-najowrimo/about-najowrimo/

 [2]: http://www.thecramped.com/national-journal-writing-month-tips-%E2%80%A2-journal-prompts-%E2%80%A2-projects/