---
url: /post/d0b392d1-f9b7-4af3-99b6-e0a9ddbd437f
date: 2014-08-06
title: "Podcast"
---

[Technical Difficulties][1] is a podcast hosted by Gabe Weatherhead and Erik Hess. I have written this many times before, and I will write it at least once more: I listen to a lot of podcasts. This is a different one.



TD started out as a podcast called Generational on the 70Decibels network. Generational and TD is similar, but still different. You could look at it this way: Generational was the 1.0, while TD is the more polished 2.0. Both of them are topical shows. A toppic, sometimes a guest, but not always.



There are two things I like about TD, compared to a lot of other podcasts out there. It&#8217;s shorter. Which makes it more focused and better than Generational was. And you have the show notes. Most podcasts, if they even have show notes, just have a list of links, and sometimes a few words. This is not true for TD. The great thing is that, you could just read the show notes and have the same information.



This is great for two reasons. It&#8217;s great if you either aren&#8217;t a podcast person, or don&#8217;t have the time to listen to this one. But, you should. I also think it&#8217;s a great resource to find information later on. It&#8217;s faster, easier and more convenient. It&#8217;s a pain to listen through a podcast just to find that one thing you finally have the time to check out.



It&#8217;s great to get the whole picture in the show notes.



It&#8217;s a great podcast. And you should check it out.



(#blog)



 [1]: http://technicaldifficulties.us