---
url: /post/43ffa408-d01e-449e-a089-98c07e82a84c
date: 2014-07-19
title: "Camera lenses"
---

I&#8217;ve had my DSLR for over a year now. It&#8217;s one of the best thing I have ever bought.



I have been thinking about writing about lenses for a while now.



When I bought it right before easter last year, I got the standard pack with the usual canon kit-lens. To be honest, I have never liked it. And I have used in under ten times. It&#8217;s big, not that good and I don&#8217;t like it. But the camera was cheaper with it, than without it.



But, I also got the brilliant Canon 40mm pancake lens. And I used it exclusively for a long time. It&#8217;s awesome!



I also have a Sigma 24-75mm lens. It&#8217;s a great lens. It&#8217;s the one I always bring when I&#8217;m traveling.



Let&#8217;s get back to the small and compact pancake lenses.



My personal opinion is that everyone with a camera where you can switch the lens should have a small and compact lens. No matter if you have a huge full format camera, a smaller DSLR, and MFT or a Fujifilm-X. A small prime makes your camera portable.



There are more too it than just having something small, light and portable. But you also learn a lot more about composing pictures with the limits a prime lens have.



You don&#8217;t zoom. You move.



Get a pancake lens, if you want to shoot more. It have made the possible for me to bring my camera out every day.



I used to have a habit, where I shot 50 pictures every time I walked to or from work or everywhere else I brought a backpack. It made me a better photographer. It made it possible to work on the craft when it was possible.



(#blog)