---
url: /post/49ead603-30fb-4732-b8ee-e70b380e5460
date: 2014-04-16
title: "Journaling"
---

Patrick Rhone just wrote a great [post][1] for this site. Or, I first read it as a part of his paid [newsletter][2].



He writes about one of my all time favourite topics – journaling.



This is not a post about how you should journal. But this is about what I put into my (DayOne) journal, and how I manage to do these things every single day.



I use an app called [HabitList][3]. The basic principle is that you add everything you want to become an habit. And then you tell it how often, etc. HabitList is the thing that reminds me to do everything related to journaling – every single day.



Now. So what do I put into my journal. The first thing I do is to take a picture of myself. And the second thing is to write something.



What and how much I write varies. It&#8217;s usually what I have done today, what I&#8217;m going to do, and how I feel. Journaling can be easy, and it can be hard. It all depends if you make it hard for yourself.



My choice is to make it easy. I just write something every day. But I try to write something that portraits that moment. How am I feeling, what&#8217;s on my mind, what have I done, and what I&#8217;m going to do.



The best thing about journaling is to read through and to get a picture of how different the different days was for you.



Make it easy for yourself. Go and get both DayOne and HabitList and get started.



(#blog)



 [1]: http://patrickrhone.com/2014/04/16/building-routines-or-how-i-became-a-daily-journal-writer/

 [2]: https://happyletter.net/thiscouldhelp

 [3]: http://habitlist.com