---
url: /post/82150554-15ba-49d8-881a-0cbe843ff543
date: 2014-06-20
title: "Pen & Paper GTD."
---

My personal GTD system have gone through a lot of changes during the last 12 months. I have written about my history with GTD in the past, but I think I&#8217;ll start with going through the history.



I used to have my custom GTD system, with a few text files and some custom Perl scripts back when I was on Linux. It was great. It was what I needed back then.



Then I moved on to using Remember The Milk in 2009. Before I started using Things in 2010, and then I went back to RTM. And then I landed on OmniFocus.



I never move on to something different because I think I&#8217;ll be more productive. I always move on to something different because I&#8217;m not happy with how the system itself is.



But the last year have been different. First I used a combination of OF and notebooks. It was a mess, and completely broken. Then I moved on to a combination of TaskPaper and Reminders. And back to OF for a few months.



I love OmniFocus, and I think the last version of OF for OS X is great, but it isn&#8217;t for me. It&#8217;s just too much. So, I went back to playing with the old combination of TaskPaper and Reminders a month ago.



Then I played around with just using Reminders. And a combination of Clear and Reminders.



Here is the thing. There are no single app that covers everything I need at this point. I want something simple that can handle a GTD like system with a lot of lists / projects.



Then I realised something. About 1-5% of my tasks have due dates or are reoccurring. Reminders can handle that in a usable way.



So, I just picked up a large notebook. And went through all the tasks I had in Clear and removed everything irrelevant, and wrote the rest in that notebook.



There are a few great &#8220;systems&#8221; for doing GTD-like systems with pen and paper. My favourites are The Dash Plus System and The Bullet Journal. And I have implemented a combination of the two.



It&#8217;s simple. It&#8217;s flexible. And it works, for me.



## Links



  * [The Dash Plus System][1]</p> 

  * [The Bullt Journal][2]



(#blog)



 [1]: http://patrickrhone.com/2013/04/22/the-dash-plus-system/

 [2]: http://www.bulletjournal.com