---
url: /post/d74709b1-562f-47e4-967b-c7b0d3e02a6c
date: 2014-01-06
title: "Huffduffer"
---

Huffduffer have been one of the services I have meant to check out for a very long time. And I did, for a long time ago, but I have finally gotten more into it.



The basic principle is that you create your own curated podcast feed.



The service itself is what you expect. You install a bookmarklet in your browser of choice; and you click it, and follow the instructions to add a podcast to your huffduffer account.



And then you just add that RSS feed to your podcasting app of choice.



One of the things I did during December was to clear out a lot of podcasts out of my list. I had huge amounts of them. Some of them were interesting at some point, while others were some show that Merlin or Marco appeared on at some point. So, I got rid of them.



**My old workflow used to be:** &#8211; Merlin is on some podcast that I don&#8217;t listen to &#8211; Subscribe &#8211; Listen to that episode &#8211; Check out a few others &#8211; Either: listen to the whole back catalog, or &#8220;mark all as read&#8221;.



**New workflow:** &#8211; Merlin is on some podcast that I don&#8217;t listen to &#8211; Huffduff that episode, and a few others if it looks interesting



I don&#8217;t think Huffduffer is for everyone, and I don&#8217;t think Instapaper or Read it later services is for everyone. But if you are the kind of person that subscribe to a show just to listen to some or very few episodes, then huffduffer might be something for you.



The service works great, most of the time. I have seen that it don&#8217;t detect the audio file URL sometimes. But other than that: great service.



[Check it out][1]



(#blog)



 [1]: http://huffduffer.com