---
url: /post/46b0d765-257d-43bd-8804-678ba4a26b50
date: 2014-04-08
title: "It’s fake"
---

This will be a short piece about a subject that have been driving me nuts, while I was writing another essay. It might come out within a few weeks.



You might know someone like this, &#8220;if you do the same thing as I did, you&#8217;ll end up with the exact same result&#8221;. This is the most annoying and stupid logic out there.



What I&#8217;m pointing at here is the idea of &#8220;IKEA-systems&#8221;. Systems where you need to do the exact same thing. The exact same way as the designers and developers meant you should use them. And then they sell it as something that would change their life.



First of all, it will not be that way for most people. And then you have the idiots. The idiot<sup id="fnref-0"><a href="#fn-0" class="jetpack-footnote">1</a></sup> you shared a office with one time. That installed Evernote. And don&#8217;t understand why everyone don&#8217;t use Evernote for everything in their life. Before he moved on to using OmniFocus, and some other &#8220;stuff-management-solution&#8221;.



The solution to most problems out there isn&#8217;t the IKEA, follow these instructions exactly as I tell you kind of solutions. It&#8217;s the LEGO solutions.



They are sometimes apps, and sometimes books. This is what GTD is. You need to understand the ideas and concepts, and then you need to develop and review your own implementation of that system.



There are no magic solution that solves anything out there. The only thing you will find out there are tools that makes easier to solve your problems, but you still have to do the job, yourself.



(#blog)



<li id="fn-0">

  I have been this idiot. But it didn&#8217;t take me long to understand that my process on using apps, services and tools move too fast for anyone to follow. So I just stopped talking about it. ↩&#160;<a href="#fnref-0">&#8617;</a> </fn></footnotes>