---
url: /post/bcde9c60-ba1a-4d8e-9f2a-e45ee1fe9724
date: 2014-04-10
title: "Happy"
---

The idea for this post came from a major annoyance of mine. We all have heard it: &#8220;you should just quit your job, and make your hobby your job, and you&#8217;ll be happy&#8221;.



I don&#8217;t agree.



The more I think about what makes me happy, the more I think it is something a bit more complex than just doing what you love.



I have done a lot of changes with my life since August last year, and this text is a reflection on how they have made me happier.



**Balance**. You need to have a balance between your private and work life that you are happy about. I&#8217;m talking about &#8220;work life&#8221; as in paid work. Some people like to work a stupid amount, while others like to work less. You need to figure out what you like, and live within those boundaries.



**Arrangement**. Some people like to have _one_ job, while others like to have more than one, or even many. I prefer to have more than one job, you need to figure out what&#8217;s the right thing for you.



**What**. One of the most important things in life is to figure out what you want to work with. I used to think software development was the thing I should work with. I have done it, and still do it. It&#8217;s not like I hate it, but I don&#8217;t think it is something I will do forever. You need to check if the thing you are doing right now, is the best thing for _you_.



**Develop yourself**. I&#8217;m self critical of nature. And I&#8217;m also a strong believer in the essence in the &#8220;Outliers&#8221; message. You can learn _anything_.



I learnt how to do both general software development and web development, during my teens. It was hard work. But I learnt it by talking to other people that was learning, and by doing.



I never card much about or for writing during High School. But I got more interested in it when a few years ago. What I did was to follow the old advice by doing it a lot. I wrote at least 500 words every single day, until I got good at it.



This year, I have done something different. It&#8217;s not the exact same process, but similar. I have never been that good at taking the initiative, and talking to people I don&#8217;t know. But I took up a job as a street fundraiser this year.



You learn by doing, and by your mistakes. Embrace and learn from them.



**Hobbies**. I think they are the single most important thing any person are doing. I have a few of them. I love taking pictures, writing on this (and other) sites. I love talking to intelligent people. And I love hiking.



I usually think about my paid gigs as a way for me to do, and develop my hobbies.



**What makes someone happy?** What makes me happy is to be able to do a lot of different things. I work one day a week for free in a student pub. I use the rest of my time doing fundraising, studying, software development. Or politics, photography and writing.



Find your balance, and don&#8217;t be afraid to change the parts of your life that are making your miserable.



(#blog)