---
url: /post/a1c2d1f7-744c-4cd2-ae9b-ca03cabf040e
date: 2014-05-18
title: "Dash Plus"
---

The Dash / Plus system is a paper markup language. Developed by Patrick Rhone; you can read about it [here][1].



This is how I use DashPlus, and where I use it.



I use two different kinds of notebooks. The first one is FieldNotes. I carry them everywhere, but I don&#8217;t use Dash/Plus in them. The reason for this is that FieldNotes is just a &#8220;temp&#8221;-folder for everything I need to capture when I&#8217;m not in front of a desk or a computer.



But, I do use the system when I&#8217;m writing in a large notebook. There are three reasons for this



  1. I&#8217;m usually sitting down, in front of a desk when I write in a large notebook.</p> 

  2. I&#8217;m never in a hurry when I do so



  3. The different form factor of a large notebook makes it work better.



My version of Dash Plus is a simplified one. It&#8217;s either regular notes or tasks. I don&#8217;t put any markup on notes, and I use the regular dash on any task, and then I make it into a plus when it&#8217;s completed. Like the DashPlus whitepaper describes.



Some people do all their &#8220;GTD&#8221; stuff in OmniFocus or something similar; while others do it all on paper. I do a little of both. Everything with a due date or that&#8217;s a part of a larger project will always be in OmniFocus. While I create lists of everything I want to do today or tomorrow on paper.



I look at OmniFocus and write down everything I want to do there, or everything else that&#8217;s on my mind.



I know I could do it with OmniFocus. But it&#8217;s just so much easier to make a simple list on paper. Then I don&#8217;t have to mess with Context and Focus mode. A simple list of tasks is all I need while working. But I do need OmniFocus to figure out what I&#8217;m going to do today, when I&#8217;m planning the day.



I might implement the remaining parts of Dash / Plus into my workflow at some point. But only when or if I need them.



This is important. You should never implement anything except for what you need into your systems. You need to have workflows that works for you, and that means to decide what you need, and what works for you.



(#blog)



 [1]: http://patrickrhone.com/2013/04/22/the-dash-plus-system/