---
url: /post/975f7f22-a441-40b1-b2f3-0f46b62c6614
date: 2014-04-01
title: "Length"
---

Myke Hurley had Merlin Mann as a guest on the latest episode of [CMD+Space][1]. And they touched on something that I care a lot about.



That is the question: how long should it be? It works on both podcasts<sup id="fnref-0"><a href="#fn-0" class="jetpack-footnote">1</a></sup> and any form of the written word.



There is nothing I hate more than idea of having to write a certain number of words. It doesn&#8217;t matter if it is an article or essay – I hate it.



I have written a lot since 2011; both school, work and for various web-sites. And my writing process when I can do whatever I want is simple:



  1. Assignment or idea

  2. Figuring out what I want to say

  3. Writing a draft

  4. Re-writing it until the text is something I&#8217;m proud of, that also end up saying something, that is both clear and interesting



I get a lot of &#8220;Write 1500 words about X&#8221; assignments at the University. This alters my writing process. Out of need, not choice.



  1. Read the assignment</p> 

  2. Read about the subject



  3. Write the worlds worst first draft



  4. Look at the word count



  5. Write a longer, and less terrible draft from scratch



  6. Repeat until I&#8217;m at 1500 words



  7. Fix quotes.



  8. Re-write the worst parts.



  9. Fix qutoes and other formalities.



My main problem with the idea of writing something that has to be X words is that I never know when it should end – until I&#8217;m there.



You are telling a story, when you write or podcast. And you never know what the length is. Mine are usually around 3-600 words. But that is something that changes.



The important is to write something that is good. The length doesn&#8217;t matter, as long as it&#8217;s the correct one for you, your audience and what you are writing right now. And you audience would probably prefer 10 000 good words over 500 terrbile; or 500 good ones over 10 000 terrbile ones.



(#blog)



<li id="fn-0">

  I have never recorded a podcast, but I have been listening to an insane amount of podcasts the last few years. ↩&#160;<a href="#fnref-0">&#8617;</a> </fn></footnotes>



 [1]: http://5by5.tv/cmdspace/90