---
url: /post/c40494f9-195d-42c7-aa43-70b2aa92a35e
date: 2014-10-25
title: "Headphones."
---

Marco did his headphone [review][1] earlier this year. This post is about headphones, but it isn&#8217;t a review. It&#8217;s just a post about what I look for in the different kinds of headphones I own.



I have owned so many headphones, of different brands, types and shapes over the years that I don&#8217;t have any idea about how many. But I did end up with a system about six years ago, that have worked very well.



My current system consists of two different headphones; one expensive pair, and one &#8220;disposable&#8221; pair. The thing I mean by disposable is that it is a pair of headphones that I use every day, and just buy something new when they break. While the nice pair have always been something where I would repair them, if they break.



The two headphones have two different purposes as well. The nice one is what I use while flying, taking the bus, working at home or the office; in other words, they are something I use for longer periods. While the disposable is the thing I walk around with outside.



I almost forgot. The reason I decided to have two pairs is related to two different reason. The first is that I have never found any pair of headphones that can take the combination of being used every day for many hours, and all the rain where I live.



I wanted something good enough to use for when I was walking outside, but I also wanted something more comfortable to use at home, inside and while traveling.



My current go to disposable option is the [Apple EarPods][2]. They are good enough; comfortable, lasts for a reasonable amount of time; and have a handy remote and microphone. They aren&#8217;t the cheapest. But you get a lot of value for $29.



I have used my current nice pair of headphones for a very long time. I think I bought them in June 2011. It is the Bose QuietComfort 15. They were expensive. The current price on Amazon in $299. Bose headphones aren&#8217;t the best, if you just look at the sound quality. These are the reasons I went for them in 2011



  1. Excellent active noise reduction. Very useful in offices and while traveling. 

  2. You can replace the cushions or the cable yourself, without any hassel. 

  3. I think they are very comfortable. 



First of all, buy the QC25, if you are going to buy them today. It&#8217;s the new model.



Secondly. The second point in my list is very important to me. I&#8217;m not going to buy any expensive set of headphones where I can&#8217;t do simple things like replacing cushions or cables without a service manual. I have done both, once, and it took less than a minute to replace each. And they are the two things that often break.



If you are like me, a person that listen to music, audio books or podcasts all the time, consider to have two different pairs of headphones. Especially if you have some of my problems. I guess I could have used the Bose set all the time, without it breaking. But I think it&#8217;s cheaper to buy a couple of EarPods per year, than to replace cushions and cables a lot on my QC15.



Some people are always looking for the one perfect thing. I always start to see if one thing is the correct, when I have problems finding that magical one thing. This is how I ended up with two headphones, instead of just one. There was a time when I had three.



(#blog)



 [1]: http://www.marco.org/headphones-closed-portable

 [2]: http://store.apple.com/us/product/MD827LL/A/apple-earpods-with-remote-and-mic