---
url: /post/2cb342f9-0ff1-4e26-a359-2ecfff1993e5
date: 2014-06-05
title: "iCloud 2014"
---

iCloud is a huge collection of different services; and it&#8217;s growing.



I think most power users have a far from perfect experience with parts of the iCloud infrastructure. My personal experience is that parts of it works great. Like Calendar, Contacts, Reminders and Backup.



And then you have stuff like the document sync, that works more or less as it should.



The thing that most of us had huge problems with was the CoreData sync. My personal opinion as a developer is that this was a bad idea. And a typical Steve Jobs era &#8220;Apple Magic&#8221; concept.



My biggest problem with iCloud happened last year, in August. I don&#8217;t know what I did, but I had to spend quite a few hours on the phone with Apple support to get it fixed. The problem was that my whole iCloud account was in some kind of state that made any file or piece of data stored by any app in iCloud was unaccessible. I couldn&#8217;t download or upload files, or sync anything. Except for Reminders, Calendars and Tasks.



Let&#8217;s move on.



The new features added to iCloud is interesting – very interesting.



iCloud drive is more or less like Dropbox, only by Apple. I think it will be great, and I don&#8217;t see any reason for Apple fucking it up.



Photos, I haven&#8217;t had any problems with the photo part of iCloud, my only problem with it is that it&#8217;s confusing.



CloudKit isn&#8217;t anything I would ever use. But that&#8217;s because I like to have control over the web service. I have written many of them – and I don&#8217;t have any problem with managing servers. CloudKit isn&#8217;t something for everyone, but it seems like a great soultions for syncing states and simple data between apps. You can&#8217;t build the next Instagram on it, but I think it could be a great soultion for everyone that just need to sync small amounts of data.



The problems with iCloud in the past was that Apple tried to be &#8220;smart&#8221; about stuff that is really hard – if not impossible to do. This generation of iCloud seems like a nice collection of sensible technology. And I actually think they will manage to pull it off this time.



(#blog)