---
url: /post/88cf0f91-3eff-48a9-abfc-104f25502c5b
date: 2014-03-28
title: "Design"
---

Designing websites is hard. The Squarespace days was simple. I picked a template, modified them until they was more or less what I wanted, and then I moved on.



I never went far enough with the platform to develop anything from scratch.



WordPress, and most other platforms[0] requires more. There are a few options &#8211; Pay a designer to do it for you &#8211; Start from scratch &#8211; Buy a good commercial template &#8211; Find one of the hundreds of thousands of terrible free ones &#8211; Find one of the few good free templates.



Now you need to decide if you want to change it or not[1][1]. I have a template that I designed from scratch, it&#8217;s not finished. And I doubt it will ever be. The current design of Hjertnes.me used to be [Less][1]. But, I&#8217;ve modified it quite a lot.



I also use [BigFoot.js][2] to get &#8220;Marco-style&#8221; footnotes.



In the end the design question – at least for me – is about should I spend a lot of time right now designing something from scratch. Or should I start with something I could accept, and over time shape it into the design I wanted all along?



I always end up going with the latter. First of all, I don&#8217;t have the time to move a design from the easy &#8220;usable&#8221; state to &#8220;perfect&#8221;. And I kind of like the process of finding the one thing about my design that I hate – and fixing it. And doing that over and over and over again until the design is good.



You just need to get a design, that you are proud of. My personal taste is simple, beautiful designs, that shows off the content. While other people like more &#8220;in your face&#8221; designs[2][2].



But the thing you have to do in the end, is to find what kind of design – what kind of message you want to send to your readers. My site isn&#8217;t perfect, and I don&#8217;t think anyone expects that.



Your site should look like it is something someone designed during the last two years. And it need to look professional[3].



Go out there and get a great design. [^0]: Tumblr is one of the few exceptions [^1]: If you picked up a paid or free template on the net. [^2]: They are probably compensating for something… [^3]: Whatever that means these days. Nothing. What I mean by it is to have something you can show your boss, your board, your professor or your mom.



(#blog)



 [1]: http://lessmade.com/themes/less/

 [2]: http://www.bigfootjs.com