---
url: /post/163fa8d9-8f7c-405c-8549-34ccb5cbabec
date: 2014-02-12
title: "TaskPaper"
---

I have been writing a lot about task paper lately, and I don&#8217;t think there will be many more articles about it in a while. It will be this one, and I have another planned. One of the things I find very interesting about tags in TaskPaper, is that they can be both what we usually look at as &#8220;tags&#8221;, but also meta-data.



Let me explain. You can filter out everything with the tag @done, this will result in everything with the tag @done. But, tags can also have some data associated to it. Let&#8217;s take this on as an example: @done(2014-01-01). This is a tag with the content 2014-01-01; this is all the stuff I completed on the first of january 2014. The filter &#8220;@done&#8221; will display everything with the tag @done. While the filter &#8216;@done = &#8220;2014-01-01&#8243;&#8216;, let you filter out everything with a certain tag, that also have an exact value associated to it.



You can also do more advanced searches like <, data-preserve-html-node=&#8221;true&#8221;> etc. And combine filter together with &#8220;and&#8221;, &#8220;or &#8221; and not statements; you also filter on projects. This query language, with a very powerful tag-syntax makes TaskPaper insanely powerful. I would love to be able to search searches I often use, either in a list, or be able to add them as buttons to the toolbar. TextExpander is a brilliant companion, for the time being, since we don&#8217;t have these possibilities.



So, let&#8217;s move on to my main point. The tagging system in TaskPaper is more like a data for associating meta-data to tasks, projects and note, than a regular tagging system. But, it&#8217;s way more powerful than most meta-data fields in GTD systems. And it is way more efficient to work with. The important note here, is to always stride against something that isn&#8217;t more complicated than you actually need. The other important thing is to standardise everything, pick one tag for one purpose, and don&#8217;t mix singular and plural names.



It&#8217;s a nightmare if you have more than one tag, for the same purpose. Decide! Think about these things, and you life will be much easier.



(#blog)