---
url: /post/9332a2ce-4fea-4fa4-88b7-56f55cbc7d03
date: 2015-12-08
title: "iPhone 5s Review"
---

I got my new iPhone a week ago, and thought I would round off the life of my old iPhone with a review. The purpose of most reviews are some form of &#8220;should I buy it&#8221;, the purpose of this review is more in the light &#8220;what do I really think about the device after countless hours of use&#8221;.



There are many things I really love about the iPhone 5s, Touch ID is fantastic, and so is the camera, and the performance was pretty good all the way to the end. But there are also some things I don&#8217;t like. I think the iPhone 5 and 5s form factor is a horrible compromise and the worst of two worlds, I would rather like to have a bigger screen or the previous size. You can see another tweet or e-mail on the screen, and that is more or less it; while you get a more balanced and efficient screen size on the 4s and previous models(efficient in terms of how fast one can navigate the interface).



The design is okay, I think the look is okay, but I honestly prefer the heavier feel of the 4s to the 5s ridiculously light weight.



I use all of my devices pretty hard, I listen to music, podcasts or audiobooks at least 10 hours per day, and sometimes all the time I&#8217;m not writing, showering or sleeping. They have a rough life: I drop them, I use them outside in the very cold Norwegian winter climate, and in the very wet and rainy weather here in Bergen. And I do think it is impressive that any piece of electronics are still working after 18 months, but the iPhone 4s is up until this point the device that survived with the most grace.



(#blog)