---
url: /post/ef2ff96c-8d76-46cb-9c14-6b66675e93d2
date: 2015-10-22
title: "Macsparky"
---

> The mechanism that is an SLR camera–the mirror, the shutter, and the rest–is a bit old and creaky. Removing it in mirrorless cameras madE competition from outsiders easier. I&#8217;d argue the same is true for the internal combustion engine. Existing car makers have so much specialized knowledge about how to make the best and most reliable internal combustion engines and, for many years, the acquisition of this specialized knowledge was the barrier to entry for anyone that wanted to make cars. However, that is changing. Electric cars are much simpler. There is an electric motor that is attached to a chassis with some sort of braking and steering mechanism. Carburetors, pistons, engine blocks, smog absorbers, oil pans, and all that other junk that are required to make an internal combustion engine all get thrown out the window with an electric car. 



I mostly agree, I think, as for the fossil care, there will be a time and a place for it, for a very long time to come. But I don&#8217;t think it is the right thing for most people today. But I think people, like me, who has a lot of money invested in accessories and glass for a type of camera are going to stick with it for a while.



The question for me, is not if I should get rid of my DSLR or not, but rather if there are some mirrorless camera that fit between my DSLR and my iPhone; the answer to that question right now is: the Fujifilm X100-series.



Will my next camera my a DSLR? No, it will be something like the Fujifilm X100t. But I know I will buy another Canon DSLR when my current camera breaks



The reasons are simple:



  * I have most of the optics I want and need, and it is much cheaper for me to buy a few more lenses to have everything, than it is to sell them, and start from scratch.

  * I have a lot of other accessories

  * I know exactly how to get what I want from it

  * The view-finder in a proper SLR is much better.



(#blog)