---
url: /post/81cd090b-ebd4-43a3-b60c-9c21edee1e30
date: 2015-07-10
title: "Apple Music"
---

Apple Music launched a week and a half ago, and I signed up for the free trial right there and then. I also stoppet my Spotify subscription and deleted the app.



My initial impression is that the app itself isn&#8217;t that great, but there are things I love about the new service. The thing that I started loving straight away is the fact that both my iTunes Music, and the streaming collection is available from the same place. This is the thing I disliked about Spotify and Rdio.



I have also been playing around with the &#8220;For you&#8221; section the last 5 days. The library available in all the different streaming services are more or less the same, but the difference between them are the app and the stuff they do to be different, with that.



While the Apple Music app isn&#8217;t the best, I think Apple will iterate and improve on that in the coming weeks and months. And the playlists are fantastic. I&#8217;m not the kind of person that listen to a lot of new music, that period is over, as I&#8217;m getting closer to 30 years.



The thing I love about the &#8220;For you&#8221; section is that they are giving me all kinds of great playlists, that either have artists that I love that I haven&#8217;t been listening to for a very long time, or special playlists featuring parts of artists songs that I haven&#8217;t heard in a very long time. For example this morning: the acoustic period of Bob Dylans career.



Apple Music(and Beats) is the first service with a usable curation section, that actually gives me stuff I want to listen to. And I really look forward to using it. It is the only thing I have been using since I set it up and started to tell it what kind of stuff I like.



I hoped that Apple would get this right, but I feared they wouldn&#8217;t. And the result is beyond anything I could hope for. The curation part isn&#8217;t just for discovering new music, but also for finding stuff you didn&#8217;t remember.



I look forward to what the feature brings.



(#blog)