---
url: /post/f4550e59-675e-4b9d-a68c-e6acc3501cd7
date: 2015-01-03
title: "Twitter in 2015."
---

I have a lot of thoughts and opinions about Twitter. It have been my social network of choice for a long time now. I just love how open and simple it is.



There are however at least two different twitter experiences at this point. One of them are the bleeding edge experience provided by the web site and the official twitter apps. And you have the more old school version of twitter, that you find in apps like Tweetbot.



Twitter by itself is pretty simple. You have tweets, @-mentions, retweets, stars and hashtags. And that is more or less it.



But there are some differences between how you experience twitter in the official app, and most third party apps.



  * **Ads.** The only place you will see ads on twitter, is on the web site, and in the official apps. I don&#8217;t like them, but I do believe that this is the only direction twitter can go, at this point. I would have preferred for ADN to take over for twitter. But that didn&#8217;t happen. 

  * **Replies.** Replies is one of the biggest difference between the official experience and my tweetbot experience. Replies are grouped below the tweet in the official app, while they just appear in the point in your timeline, the reply was posted in third party apps. This makes the reply system more like a regular comment thread or e-mail thread. Neither is better. And the way twitter is doing it now makes more sense to new users. But I still prefer the old way. It&#8217;s the way I&#8217;m used to seeing them.

  * **Injected tweets** is my least favorite thing about the official twitter app. They are forcing me to see tweets and twitter accounts that they believe I would find interesting. It&#8217;s probably a good thing for new users and some people. But I don&#8217;t like it. One of the reasons I love twitter is that I&#8217;m in charge of what I&#8217;m going to see; something I&#8217;m not on Facebook. 

  * **Power features.** The more popular third party clients are more powerful in some regards. They have advanced filtering, with regular expressions or based on hashtags. And you have fancy stuff like timeline sync etc. 



I&#8217;m not going to switch over to the official apps before I have to. I don&#8217;t like the ads, but that&#8217;s not the reason. I like the power features, but that&#8217;s not the reason. I don&#8217;t like the way they organise replies, but that&#8217;s not the reason. The thing that keeps me from using the official apps are the stream of tweets that twitter thinks I would like. I don&#8217;t want them, I don&#8217;t care for them.



I don&#8217;t like the direction twitter is going. What they are are not the twitter I signed up for in 2007. And they have become more and more hostile against third party developers, the people that made twitter popular. Third party developers have strange limits on the number of people that can use the app, and they don&#8217;t get access to any of the new stuff twitter have created.



I hope it will change, but I doubt it.



(#blog)