---
url: /post/b3db0d43-5c60-4c70-8831-080a5e590e32
date: 2016-01-01
title: "Books I read in 2015"
---

Patrick Rhone have been publishing lists of the book he have completed during the last calendar year for a while now. And I always think: fuck, I want to do that, every single time. This year I actually did it.



Below is the list. I have grouped them by author simply because I read a lot.



## Stephen King



Stephen King is one of my absolute favourite authors. He is one of the authors where I just pick up something random that I haven&#8217;t read before when browsing my local book store or Audible.



And I often re-read or re-listen his books, when I don&#8217;t have anything else to read or listen to.



  * On Writing. One of my aboslute favourite &#8220;writing&#8221; books, and I try to re-read or re-listen to this one once a year. A fantastic read, even for non writer, the autobigoraphical part of the book is fantastic. 

  * It. I first got the audiobook early this year, then I got the paperback when I was in England in May. It is one fantastic book. This is one of the books that would make a fantastic move, if given the proper budget and number of movies / hours. 

  * The Stand. A very long, but strongly enough it doesn&#8217;t feel very long. I think this book is the best example of what a brilliant story teller Stephen King is. You have many many different story lines that merges into two different ones before they collide at the end. I can&#8217;t recommend this book enough. Another Stephen King book that would make a brilliant movie. 

  * Needful things. I enjoyed this book, but it isn&#8217;t the best Stephen King book I have read, but still better than most books. 

  * 11-22-63. I usually don&#8217;t enjoy time travel stuff. But this book is one of the few that &#8220;works&#8221;. 

  * Mr. Mercedes. Brilliant book, I think this is the best book he has written since Doctor Sleep. The only thing I did in between listening to this one was to sleep and buying beer. 

  * Revival. Another one of the Stephen King books that isn&#8217;t the best, but still very high entertainment value. The weird thing about Stephen King is that some of his books are brilliant, while others are just okay; the just okay books are still so much better than most books. 

  * A good marriage. There are probably a million versions of this story; wife kills husband and tries to get away with it. The story itself isn&#8217;t much, but the twist on it is brilliant. 



## Charles Bukowski



Bukowski is one of my aboslutley favourite writers. I have all of his novels, plus some other stuff on Audible. And they are one of the books I just re-listen to when I don&#8217;t have anything better to do.



  * Ham on Rye</p> 

  * Hollywood



  * Pulp



  * Hot water music



  * South of No North



  * Post office



  * Factotum



  * Women



## Friedrich Nietzsche



Friedrich Nietzsche have been and continue to be one of my favourite philosophers. The reason his writings always click with me is because it provokes independent though and not some complete system that one should follow.



  * **Antichrist**</p> 

  * **Geneology of morals.**



  * **Why I am so wise.**



  * **Will to Power.**



## Anthony Kenny



One of the better attempts at writing a easy to understand History of Philosophy. The thing I like about Kenny is that he divides it into a Historical overview and a topical one. It makes it a little bit longer, but much easier to navigate.



  * **Ancient Philosophy: A New History of Western Philosophy, Volume 1**

  * **Medieval Philosophy: A New History of Western Philosophy, Volume 2**

  * **The Rise of Modern Philosophy: A New History of Western Philosophy, Volume 3**

  * **Philosophy in the Modern World: A New History of Western Philosophy, Volume 4**



## George RR Martin



I spent most of the summer listening to the audiobook version of the A Song of Ice and Fire series. I thought the TV series was good, but the books are brilliant.



  * A Game of Thrones</p> 

  * A Clash of Kings



  * A Storm of Swords



  * A Feast for Crows



  * A Dance with Dragons



## Ludwig Wittgenstein



I took a course on Ludwig Wittgenstein last semester. And had to suffer through his two main works, plus On Certainty. It is the hardest course I have taken, and it is some of the, if not the, hardest stuff I have ever read.



The results from taking it are pretty good. And I think I&#8217;m at least a little bit smarter after taking it.



  * Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus, 

  * On Certainty

  * Philosophical Investigations ## Patrick Rhone Patrick is my favourite &#8220;web&#8221; writer, and a fantastic human being. I have been following his various sites for many years, since either 2010 or 2011; I don&#8217;t remember. His books are excellent, and you should check them out. I re-read them more or less once a year. My favourite is Keeping it Straight. 

  * **Some thoughts about writing**

  * **This could help .**

  * __Keeping it Straight.

  * **Enough.**

  * **Minimal Mac.**



## Miscellaneous



This section contains all the books I where I either read one, or just a few books by the author.



  * \_\_Wittgenstein, William Child. \_\_ This was the main syllabus book in the Wittgenstein course I took this semester. I wouldn&#8217;t say that I enjoyed it, but it made Ludwig Wittgenstein&#8217;s philosophy possible to navigate in a reasonable amount of time. And was necessary for me to get a basic understanding of his Philosophy and to write a good term paper.</p> 

  * __ An Astronaut&#8217;s Guide to Life on Earth, Chris Hadfield __. I&#8217;m a huge fan of Hadfield ever since I saw his Bowie cover, recorded at the International Space Station; which got me interested in space exploration again. I listened to the audiobook version, and it was fantastic.



  * __ Lolita, Vladimir Nabokov. __ I have been struggeling with both the audio, Norwegian translation and the English version of this book for many years. In fact, it was the first book I bought on Audible. I finally completed it. It is a great book, but it requires something.



  * **Victoria, Knut Hamsun.** I got the pocket version of this book from Ingri for Christmas. And I spent a afternoon re-reading it. I already had it in my old Collective Work of Knut Hamsun, and haven&#8217;t read it in years. The books are so heavy and old. This is the great thing about pocket books. The entry is so much lower. I love this book for the writing and the classic tragedy structure of the book. Every Norwegian out there should read it, and anyone else should find a English translation.



  * __ Think, Simon Blackburn. __ I got this book when I was in England, and it is a fantastic introduction to Philosophy. It is always a sign when someone like me, who has read tens of thosands of pages of Philosphy, and is more or less done with a Bachelors in it enjoys it. It isn&#8217;t hard to understand and it was a very easy read.



  * __ Thinking, Fast and Slow, Daniel Kahneman. __ A great book, but I thought it was a little bit too &#8220;long winded&#8221; for my taste. But I would still recommend anyone to read it.



  * **Hva er filosofi?, Lars Fr. H. Svendsen.** One of the academic publishers here in Norway have this amazing series of books called Hva er / What is, where they take some subject and tell a professor or something to write a small book about it. Most of them are good, but this one is excellent. I gave it to my girlfriend for christmas. It&#8217;s a great simplified introduction to philosophy. It also includes one of the bests critics of modern academic philosophy have ever read.



  * **Mening?. John. Hellesnes .** There isn&#8217;t often I see a philosophy book placed like this one in a book store. They are usually hidden, while this one was one of the few they were trying to promote, that day. I enjoyed part of it. It&#8217;s a book, in Norwegian, about religion criticism in Friedrich Nietzsche, and the Norwegian poet and writer: Arne Gaborg. I really enjoyed the Friedrich Nietzsche parts of the book. And the rest was pretty good. The reason I liked this is because of my relationship with Friedrich Nietzsche, I enjoy his philosophy, and I love to read others interpretations and criticism of it, because that again helps me develop my own.



  * **On bullshit, Harry G. Frankfurt.** A philosophical essay. I saw it in a book shop, while killing time before I was going to a job interview. It was one of the books I had to buy, just because the title was so funny. The book itself is entertaining for philosophers, and people with a interest in philosophy. By the way: I love philosophy essays like this, a theoretical approach to something silly.



  * **Classical Philosophy, Peter Adamson.** I had to read this, as a part of my philosophy degree, it&#8217;s based on the podcast &#8220;History of Philosophy without any gaps&#8221;; which is a interesting idea by itself. This is the best history of philosophy book I have read. The chapters are short, and straight to the point, and it&#8217;s very easy to read. I look forward to reading more, as the books come out.



  * **The Logic Book, Bergmann/Moor/Nelson.** This was the syllabus book in a 1-order logic course I had to take. This book is terrible. It uses too much space, and they don&#8217;t have a summary section.



  * **Life lessons from Nietzche, John Armstrong.** Interesting, but not much new in this one. It was still $15 bucks well spent, and a few hours of entertainment.



  * **Er vi venner igjen?, Pål Angelskår.** A very long collection with essays, I would be very generous if I said I liked five of them.



  * __ Blink, Malcolm Gladwell. __ A fantastic book about the thinking without thinking.



  * __ Talk like TED, Caroline Gallo. __ Not the worlds best book. But this book provides a unique view into the presentational style of some excellent speakers.



  * __ In dust of this planet: horror of philosophy, Eugene Thacker. __ The title is much more interesting than the content.



  * **Industrial / Organisational Psychology, Aamodt.** I read this book as a part of my job, when I was a Step-in Team Leader for a Greenpeace fundraising project, but it soon became the reason I&#8217;m never going to take any Psychology course ever.



  * **Stoner, John Williams.** A weird, fascinating and tragic story; but still a fantastic book.



  * **The Nicomachean Ethics, Aristotle.** I liked this one better than all the other books by Aristotle that I have read; mostly because it is much easier to read. This might be the most influential piece of ethics ever written.



  * **A Theory of Justice, John Rawls.** The book is brilliant, without doubt. I&#8217;m not sure if I prefer Rawls or Nozick. This brilliant book is a pain in the neck to get through. John Rawls isn&#8217;t a man of few words, and my feeling when I had to have a lecture about this book is: with a few more rounds of editing this book could have been at least half the size.



  * **Phaedrus, Plato; translation by former Professor Emeritus R. Hackforth,** Some translations are just a translation, and some are a translation plus something else. This is without doubt a translation of the latter category. The additions added by Hackforth makes it much easier to get through it the first time. And then you know what to look for when you start diving into the text. Not unlike what Kaufmann have done with his Nietzsche translations.



  * **Becoming Steve Jobs: The Evolution of a Reckless Upstart into a Visionary Leader, by Brent Schlender & Rick Tetzeli**. This books is in no way perfect, but it was way better than the Isacson book.



## 2015.



I&#8217;m more or less happy with the number of books I have read this year. I stopped counting at 50. And I&#8217;m over 1 book per week, which is good. My plan for 2016 is to continue to read as much as possible. I only hope to change one thing, and that is to read more consistently. My plan is to read something more or less every single day.



(#blog)