---
url: /post/949eb031-049e-4b55-a492-cc281ec1523a
date: 2016-11-13
title: "Good coffee"
---

<div class="kg-card-markdown">

  <p>

    Regular coffee and good coffee are two very different animals. You will notice the difference when you try it. Some people I know only like good coffee and some I know only like regular. To make really good coffee isn’t expensive, time consuming or difficult. You need a few things:

  </p>

  

  <ol>

    <li>

      A burr grinder

    </li>

    <li>

      Good, fresh beans

    </li>

    <li>

      A way to brew coffee

    </li>

    <li>

      A way to boil water

    </li>

  </ol>

  

  <p>

    You can get all of it for less than $200. The most expensive thing will be the grinder, and buying beans and filters are the only on going expense. The first thing you need to do is to figure out what kind of coffee you prefer. Some prefer espresso while others prefer pour over. I personally sometimes prefer pour over, while others times prefer espresso.

  </p>

  

  <p>

    I recommend buying a good grinder like this <a href="https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B00LW8122Y/ref=s9_acsd_hps_bw_c_x_1_w">one</a> or this <a href="https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B006MLQHRG/ref=s9_acsd_hps_bw_c_x_3_w">one</a> if you can afford spending an extra $100. Then you should get a V60 if you prefer pour over, or an Aeropress if you prefer Espresso style coffee; or just get both.

  </p>

  

  <p>

    The V60 will give you really great regular coffee. It isn’t anything complicated about it, you put in the filter, grids and add water until you have filled your cut. The only skill required is the ratio between grinds and water, and how you pour the water.

  </p>

  

  <p>

    The Aeropress is another animal. It is a penis-pump looking device that lets you make many different kinds of coffee. You can make everything from french press style to espresso style or pour over style coffee with it. It all depends on the recipe you are using. There is a good chance that you will find a Aeropress recipe that match your favourite coffee.

  </p>

  

  <p>

    I have made hundreds of cups of coffee with my Aeropress, and it is still my favourite. Even though I mostly use my V60 these days. Mostly because the Aeropress requires much more precise time increments than my V60 does.

  </p>

  

  <p>

    Some people go crazy, when they start to get into coffeee. I haven’t. The coffee I make for myself is more than good enough, and better than the coffee most coffee shops make. Start simple, and add new stuff as you need it. The most important thing is to have a good grinder, and to get good beans.

  </p>

</div>