---
url: /post/d4a485c6-ceb0-4a5b-acd5-ddf58ed1b11b
date: 2016-12-21
title: "Less is more?"
---

<div class="kg-card-markdown">

  <p>

    There are three features that the current line of Apple laptops are lacking, their previous counterparts had. The Magsafe, the battery indicator lights and the charging indicator. I miss all of them.

  </p>

  

  <p>

    I’m not going to talk much more about the Magsafe, but I’m going to say that it was like having insurance, nice to have, just in case your dog stumbles in your charger.

  </p>

  

  <p>

    The next thing on my list have been gone for a while. I think they first started to go away with the wedge shaped MacBook Air in 2011, and disappeared from all modern Apple laptop with the introduction of the Retina MacBook Pro. The indicators were on the bottom of the battery, and they showed you your battery status. A fantastic feature for when you just want to know if you need to charge your laptop or not.

  </p>

  

  <p>

    The last thing on my list went away with the USB-C Chargers. It might should like a stupid feature for many people, but I strongly disagree. It is great when your laptop is on your desk, and you just want to know if it is fully charged. I would also love to have the same kind of indicator on my iPhone and Apple Watch charger. I just want to know with a simple glance if it is charged or is charging.

  </p>

  

  <p>

    Remove these three very useful features is not a huge problem, but it makes everything a little bit less “nice” and convenient. I can see the status by logging on, and I can also see if it is charging or not by doing the same thing but it is much easier to click at a button on the bottom of the battery or looking at a indicator.

  </p>

  

  <p>

    ]]>

  </p>

</div>