---
url: /post/d37c32e0-0d8d-41fb-8e2d-578e9bcf51e2
date: 2017-10-25
title: "What is ‘this’?"
---

<div class="kg-card-markdown">

  All object oreiented programming languages have some kind of variant of &#8216;this&#8217;. It&#8217;s called this in C#, and self in Python, Swift and Objective-C.</p> 

  

  <p>

    This in Javascript and C# is not exactly the same thing. But I think it makes it a little bit easier to understand. In C# this is the "magic" variable you use if you want to access an class variable.

  </p>

  

  <p>

    It is a little bit more complicated, but not really, in JavaScript. It simply refers to the current scope. By default this refers to the window object. And each function will per default have their own scope – their own this. Unless you bind a different scope to it, or use call / apply to execute the method with a different scope.

  </p>

  

  <p>

    If you for example use the DOM to fetch a node, and run some function like a event handler on that node, you can safely expect &#8216;this&#8217; in that context to be that node.

  </p>

  

  <p>

    You have a few different options to how to deal with &#8216;this&#8217;. Some projects are doing something like &#8216;var that = this&#8217; or &#8216;var self = this&#8217;. While the correct way to do it is to bind the current context into the method using &#8216;.bind&#8217;.

  </p>

  

  <p>

    Neither way is good, the that hack drives me nuts because it&#8217;s a horrible hack. And the problem with binding is that it is <strong>so fucking slow</strong>.

  </p>

  

  <p>

    In 2017 I say, bind if you have to, use arrow functions if they solve the problem for you, and always try to use .call or .apply instead of .bind when possible.

  </p>

</div>