---
url: /post/fc6defe3-b7d2-4652-b644-fe556dd1ec10
date: 2017-03-17
title: "Apple Watch"
---

<div class="kg-card-markdown">

  <p>

    Okay. So I have used the Apple Watch Series 1 for a while now. Since the day it went on sale, and I still like it more or less as much as I did when I first got it. But I don’t think it will become “mainstream” in its current form.

  </p>

  

  <p>

    It is a fantastic device for keeping track of how much you move, some Notification triage and some minor app interaction.

  </p>

  

  <p>

    I don’t care enough to get any of the serious “health monitoring devices”, but the Apple Watch does just enough, and just precise enough that I can make informed decisions about if I should move more, sleep more or relax more.

  </p>

  

  <p>

    Getting some notifications on my wrist is great: like Slack, important messages and so on. But getting everything there is horrible. If you want to either do something about it on the watch or you need to now immediately don’t have them on your watch.

  </p>

  

  <p>

    Apps on the Apple Watch is a difficult subject. Some are okay, others are great, but most suck. I love the timers, I love to control audio playback with it and the stop watch and timer stuff are okay. But I think it is very difficult to make something fast and simple enough that also is useful.

  </p>

  

  <p>

    There is one thing that I think is beyond crap, and that is the honey comb app picker thingy. Its difficult to navigate, its hard to find and pick the right app. And I really hope that Apple fixes it with the next major version of watchOS.

  </p>

  

  <p>

    I think this have to become more of a “stand alone device”, with much better battery life in order to become mainstream. The current state is just as dorky as the PDA’s some of us used before the days of the smart phone. We had to sync stuff over bluetooth or a cable. It worked. But it was kind of clunky, and no one wants to move back to that after using a proper smart phone.

  </p>

  

  <p>

    ]]>

  </p>

</div>