---
url: /post/925ed2b2-1308-4524-a80e-e186254e4ab9
date: 2017-08-10
title: "X-Pro 2"
---

<div class="kg-card-markdown">

  <p>

    I have spent some time, but not that much, since I got my X-Pro 2 figuring out what kind of lenses I want to get for my new camera. And this is one of the good things about not having a mount like the Canon EF which has history going back to 1987 where you have numerous generations of lenses from both Canon and <em>many</em> third parties. You can literally spend days if not weeks researching and comparing primes of one specific focal length.

  </p>

  

  <p>

    My current lenses are the 35mm F2, which is the lens I shoot the most with. And then you have the 50mm F2, I was going to sell it, but I have decided to keep it, because it is long enough for when I need a longer lens, while at the same time being wide enough to be useful if I’m going out with just that lens.

  </p>

  

  <p>

    Then I’m going to get the 23mm F2, following the trend of doing for lenses that are not too extreme to be a single trick pony.

  </p>

  

  <p>

    With the 23, 35 and 50 I’ll have everything I need, and all of them are focal lengths I’m very used to.

  </p>

  

  <p>

    Then I’m pretty sure I’m also going to get Samyang 8mm F2.8 fish eye, because I have always wanted one. And while being a manual lens and not that “useful” I always think very distorted images are cool and fun.

  </p>

  

  <p>

    And the last lens I’m going to get is another 35mm, and that is the Mitakon F0.95. One of the lenses I have always wanted is the Leica 50mm Noctilux, it’s indulgent, heavy, cost the same as a fucking car but the images look amazing. The Mitakon isn’t <em>that</em> expensive, but it is a manual lens, and I want it for when I’m shooting in darker situations. My personal experience is that autofocus isn’t that useful in the dark anyways.

  </p>

  

  <p>

    This puts my plans to save for my dream camera(A Leica M6) on hold for a while, but I will on the other hand have all the lenses I need and want.

  </p>

</div>