---
url: /post/fc03e5c8-9fa8-47d1-abfc-dd9458b17718
date: 2017-03-03
title: "Fuji"
---

<div class="kg-card-markdown">

  <p>

    When I look at the current camera landscape, I don’t see anyone except for Leica and Fuji doing what I want from the controls. Most Leica digital cameras are a little bit outside my comfort and ability in terms of cost. But Fuji is more or less in the middle.

  </p>

  

  <p>

    Here is what I want from my cameras: similar controls to what you find on Leica’s and mechanical analog cameras: you have dedicated controls for Shutter Speed, ISO(if they have a meter) and aperture.

  </p>

  

  <p>

    I know that more expensive advanced cameras with or without mirrors have multiple buttons and wheels that can do this job. But that is not what I am looking for, because a dedicated button system means that you can control the parameters without looking at the screen. Having the actual numbers of the dial is very help ful when you are chasing two or more variables together to get the best possible settings for what you are trying to do.

  </p>

  

  <p>

    One of my big problems with how current DSLR and mirrorless cameras are being designed is that everything is being invested the the semi automatic modes, without spending a little bit on the fully manual mode. Which in turn makes it very hard to use it.

  </p>

  

  <p>

    The Fuji X-Pro 2 has exactly what I want in this aspect. But It falls on its nose in some other aspects: battery life and full frame.

  </p>

  

  <p>

    I would love to see Fuji moving into the full frame space, I don’t need it, but I want it. One of the major problems with all mirrorless systems these days are battery life. People have been complaining about this for years, and I am baffled that Fuji and others don’t do anything about it.

  </p>

  

  <p>

    For example: If I go home to my parents for a long weekend: Thursday to Sunday, and I use my Canon dSLR, one battery charge would get my though the whole trip; and I shoot a lot. My Fuji x100t would probably need 3-4 fully charged batteries per day, if not more.

  </p>

  

  <p>

    I know. The reason is that a lot more “stuff” are using the battery in a mirrorless system compared to a dSLR, but the batteries are also larger in a dSLR. Use larger batteries, or make it possible to use more than one battery with some kind of grip, and easy to charge them without having multiple chargers.

  </p>

  

  <p>

    This is what I expect from a camera battery: two batteries should get me through 12-14 hours of heavy use.

  </p>

  

  <p>

    I love what Fuji are doing at the moment, but they and the rest of the mirrorless camera makers need to get serious about battery life.

  </p>

  

  <p>

    ]]>

  </p>

</div>