---
url: /post/75e194aa-e310-4919-a5fd-9cf440789ad6
date: 2017-01-13
title: "Backing up"
---

<div class="kg-card-markdown">

  <p>

    Having multiple backups of your data is very important in order to make sure that you don’t loose that much data if your computer breaks down, an update goes wrong or if your house burns down(or someone steals your bag).

  </p>

  

  <p>

    But having as many copies as possible is not the most important. It is also important that you have control over how recent each copy is. Having 15 copies of the same dataset without knowing what is the most recent is a real pain in the ass to sort out.

  </p>

  

  <p>

    My current backup strategy is to use Backblaze to copy everything on my local SSD to the cloud, to use SuperDuper to make a bootable clone of my local SSD, and to use Time Machine to make incremental backups to my archive drive. I also use SuperDuper to clone that archive drive to an identical drive.

  </p>

  

  <p>

    My archive drive contains backups and my Lightroom library of everything up until the end of 2016. I also make sure that my the backups( that are on that drive for historical purposes) and my Lightroom library are uploaded to Dropbox in order to have an additional copy in the cloud.

  </p>

  

  <p>

    My goal is to always have a local copy, to make it fast and easy to restore something, because I don’t have the time to wait for a week while hundreds of gigs of data downloads, and to have a copy in the cloud just in case all other options fail. But I also prefer having two local copies of my local drive for convenience. My cloned copy are there because it is the fastest option when I need to get my system up after a crash, and the Time Machine clone are there for when I need to restore files instead of the whole system.

  </p>

  

  <p>

    Backups are cheap, but the most important thing is that they are automatic. Cloud backups should run consistently in the background, and everything else should start when you plug in the drive you are backing up to.

  </p>

  

  <p>

    ]]>

  </p>

</div>