---
url: /post/7d012471-f2d2-400a-bc42-7dabfab8ee9f
date: 2017-06-28
title: "Fujifilm"
---

<div class="kg-card-markdown">

  <p>

    I got my Canon EOS 650D a little bit over four years ago. I think it was during easter. The funny thing is that it was during easter it started to “act up”. The screen started to black out for hours at a time. The camera still worked, but I didn’t really trust it after that. The camera was almost a year old when I got it. So the majority of the pictures I’ve taken have taken have been with either the X100t or with a sensor that is five years old.

  </p>

  

  <p>

    My plan was to get a 5D, when my 650D died. But I changed my mind. The reason is that I fell in love with Fuji from my experience shooting with the X100t and dedicated dials shooting with my Analog Nikon FM.

  </p>

  

  <p>

    I still think the X100t is a great camera, but the focal length never felt “right” for me. I feel much more at home using something close to a 50mm. equivalent . But what I got out of my experience with the x100, is that I love how close to “ready” Fuji’s raw files are. And how much more fun it is to use their cameras.

  </p>

  

  <p>

    So I got a black Fujifilm X-Pro 2, with the 35mm f2 lens, and I got a 50mm f2 lens with it for free. This is the perfect camera for me, and I love everything about it; except for the battery life.

  </p>

  

  <p>

    The body is metal, and you can feel it. Not from the weight. But rather from how solid everything feels. Great build quality. And the experience shooting with the camera is great. You get what makes it fun to shoot with a mechanical analog camera, combined with the amazing image quality of modern digital photography.

  </p>

  

  <p>

    When I look at the images I got out of this camera. The increased number of pixels and the vastly improved dynamic range. The jump feels similar to the one I did when I jumped from point and shoots to DSLR’s.

  </p>

  

  <p>

    ]]>

  </p>

</div>