---
url: /post/539f8e1b-202e-4642-8566-4211ac8cb20e
date: 2017-03-03
title: "USB-C"
---

<div class="kg-card-markdown">

  <p>

    I just got back my MacBook Pro from repair(or the whole thing was replaced), I’ll get back to why in a later post. But one thing I realised while using my old MacBook Air while waiting is how much more convenient USB-C / Thunderbolt-3 is compared to the previous mess.

  </p>

  

  <p>

    Do I need an adapter to plug in more or less anything? Yes. Does it have a SD card slot? No. Is both annoying? Yes.

  </p>

  

  <p>

    Here is the thing. I usually end up plugging in three external drives to my machine, one for cloning my system drive, one for archive / time machine and one clone of that archive drive, plus a SD card reader. Then I have a power plug and sometimes a screen or two.

  </p>

  

  <p>

    Previously this meant one adapter per screen, at least one USB-A hub, and a power adapter. Now I can do the same by plugging in either one or two USB-C plug (depends on how I connect things up).

  </p>

  

  <p>

    USB-C is more messy for the simplest situations, for example when I just need to charge my iPhone, and the new MacBook Pro’s are more messy when I just need to copy some images from my SD card. But when it comes down to when you connect a lot of stuff to your MacBook the situation is a lot simpler, because you can daisy chain all your crap together with a few USB-C hubs and just connect one cable to your system. Kind of like a dock, except that it isn’t tied to one laptop model.

  </p>

  

  <p>

    ]]>

  </p>

</div>