---
url: /post/789ad6f7-5d6b-4844-9341-74ad60adb433
date: 2017-06-17
title: "My bag of stuff."
---

<div class="kg-card-markdown">

  <p>

    I have this cloth bag that I put all the “stuff” I need on a daily basis. Everything from adapters, to cables and so on. There is nothing spacial about the bag itself, I think its the one I got with my H7 headphones. The goal of the bag is that I have everything I need in it, so that I don’t have to thing about it more than necessary(re-charging batteries, and replacing stuff as needed).

  </p>

  

  <ul>

    <li>

      1x spare battery for my H7’s

    </li>

    <li>

      1x spare battery for my Fujifilm X100t

    </li>

    <li>

      2x 16gb SD cards (because I broke my 64GB spare)

    </li>

    <li>

      1x spare Illford HP5+ 35mm film

    </li>

    <li>

      1 small and compact battery bank, just enough juice to charge my iPhone once.

    </li>

    <li>

      1x USB-C(male) to USB-C (female) adapter

    </li>

    <li>

      1x USB-A Nintendo 3DS proprietary charger cable.

    </li>

    <li>

      1x USB-A Micro USB cable

    </li>

    <li>

      Mini-jack male to male cable. For when I have no battery left on my H7’s.

    </li>

    <li>

      USB-A Apple Watch Charger

    </li>

    <li>

      USB-A Lightning Cable

    </li>

    <li>

      USB-C Lightning Cable

    </li>

    <li>

      USB-C Cable (male to male)

    </li>

    <li>

      USB-C Lightning cable.

    </li>

    <li>

      1x Satechi Slim Type-C MultiPort Adapter 4K

    </li>

  </ul>

  

  <p>

    I’m pretty happy with everything as of now. The only thing I want to change is the Satechi thing, I want to replace it with a single purpose USB-C to HDMI adapter. Other than that, happy as a clam.

  </p>

  

  <p>

    And I do of course have a Apple USB-C Power bricks more or less everywhere; one in my bag, one at my desk at home, one at my desk at work and one at my new house.

  </p>

  

  <p>

    ]]>

  </p>

</div>