---
url: /post/0f05a51f-ccda-4cdf-a55a-199017fb4991
date: 2017-08-25
title: "Book review"
---

<div class="kg-card-markdown">

  <p>

    Jeffery Saddoris of the co-host of the On Taking Pictures podcast, the podcast that inspired me to move from being someone who enjoyed to take snapshots to becoming someone who has photography as a serious hobby, recently self published [Photography by The Letter](<a href="https://photographybytheletter.com/">Home &#8211; Photography by the Letter</a>) the most enjoyable photography book I have ever read. And I have read an embarrassing amount of photography books over the last four and half years.

  </p>

  

  <p>

    This is the book I wish was there when I first got my Canon 650D.

  </p>

  

  <p>

    It is a beautiful, straight to the point, concise and informative book.

  </p>

  

  <p>

    My impression after reading through it during the train ride back home from work yesterday and the rest on my way to work this morning is that this book has everything you need to know until you want to take a deep dive into a certain area.

  </p>

  

  <p>

    The problem I have had, and still have to this day with most photography books is that they are written in a overindulgent manner with a serious case of “word diarrhea”. Isn’t more information better? In general yes, but the devil is in the details. You don’t want too much details that can confuse you in a general overview. More details is good when you know the basic, know how to use it, and wish to take a deep dive into to get a deeper understanding.

  </p>

  

  <p>

    This is the perfect book to start out with, and I also enjoyed it as a more experienced photographer.

  </p>

</div>