---
url: /post/b389c100-71a8-4399-acdd-78bf89817968
date: 2017-12-19
title: "setState"
---

It might look silly to have a seperate article about setting state. But some people are simply doing it wrong. And others are not aware of some of the more geeky details about the setState method.



The .setState method is how you change state in React. It takes either one or two arguments; one is what you want to update and the second is a optional callback to run after the state have been set. This is the thing I assume most people don&#8217;t know: state is set async. This means that: this.setState({foo: &#8216;bar&#8217;}); console.log(this.state) will not always or ever result with {foo: &#8216;bar&#8217;}. If you want to do something after the state have been <span class="underline"><span class="underline">fully</span></span> updated, then you have to add a callback.



Let me get back to the first argument of setState; it can either be a object or a function returning a object. The object is what you want to <span class="underline"><span class="underline">change</span></span> and not your entire state. If you only change one value, you only need to send that value.



One techincal detail at the end. When I say that setState changes state, this is technically not true, even though the result is that the changes you want are applied. What it does is to send a series of requests to update the state, and React figures out the most efficient way to do that. This is the reason .setState doesn&#8217;t immediatly update the state. And it doesn&#8217;t really change / mutate it, but it replaces it with a new object which is the previous one + the changes, something like this setState = (changes) => Object.assign(this.state, changes).



And a final note. I would try to limit the number of times you run setState, instead of calling it multiple times use a method to generate the changes. Because each time you run setState may result in a re-render; too much rendering is a certain source of bad performance.