---
url: /post/4419ea24-e6d2-48c0-9fd1-0dda08dca649
date: 2017-10-01
title: "Apple Watch"
---

<div class="kg-card-markdown">

  <p>

    So, I’ve had my Apple Watch Series 1 for about a year now. And it is without doubt one of — if not the — most important piece of hardware I have bought.

  </p>

  

  <p>

    The reason? It is the first device I have owned that keep track of how much I move, even when I don’t remember to start tracking a exercise.

  </p>

  

  <p>

    I use my Apple Watch for three things:

  </p>

  

  <ul>

    <li>

      Health and fitness tracking

    </li>

    <li>

      Notifications

    </li>

    <li>

      Simple data capture

    </li>

  </ul>

  

  <p>

    I wear my Apple Watch more or less 24/7; and I charge it when I get home from work, between dinner and when I walk my dogs, and when I shower after that walk. This is usually enough to get me through until the next day.

  </p>

  

  <p>

    It tracks my hearth rate, and it tracks how much I move and my sleep. And that is more or less it. From a health perspective. Then I use it to monitor <em>important</em> notifications. And I ignore the rest.

  </p>

  

  <p>

    And the last thing I use it for is very simple data capture, like adding to Water minder as I drink water.

  </p>

  

  <p>

    The thing I think is the real value of a Apple Watch is to not “use” it and let it do its thing, and then use it as a tool to first survey how much you move per week, and then use it as a tool to move more and experiment until you find the spot where it requires work but not too much work to reach your goals.

  </p>

  

  <p>

    I’m in much better shape now, than I was a year ago. And I have a much better idea of how I’m going to work against improving it even more.

  </p>

  

  <p>

    I have the Series 1, and I probably won’t upgrade this year, unless I break mine. But I will probably upgrade next year.

  </p>

  

  <p>

    The band I have used the most is my Product Red sports band. These rubbery plastic bands are much better than the ones you might have used on your cheap Casio watch from when you were growing up. And I think they are the best option for most people most of the time. But you might consider something nicer to do when dressing up; but I never do.

  </p>

  

  <p>

    I have one complaint about it: it is sometimes a little bit hard to get the end into the hole. It isn’t a problem most of the time, but sometimes I unbuckle it in my sleep.

  </p>

</div>