---
url: /post/e44cb3b4-2d0f-4b76-ba03-8b157d2053fc
date: 2018-01-29
title: "Yarn vs NPM"
---

There are two widely used package managers for Node at the moment. One of them comes bundled with Node, and then you have Yarn.



The argument for using yarn over npm used to be a lot stronger before NPM version 5. Because, back then nom did not use a lock file. A lock file is a file that keeps track of the dependency graph between changes. This means that when you don&#8217;t change your package.json, yarn or npm will read their lock files (if they exist) when install your projects dependencies. It saves some time because instead of going through the package.json in your dependencies and their dependencies and so on, it will just read it from a single file.



What to use in 2018?



To use the existing package format from NPM was probably the smartest thing yarn did. Because everyone with a working package.json file could just run yarn install instead of npm install. I still keep lock files of both up to date and checked into git in most if not all of my projects. Parts of it is because of stuff I haven&#8217;t updated, other parts is to make sure people I work with can use what ever they are comfortable with.



I prefer yarn over npm because I think the way the command line interface have been designed makes a hell of a lot more sense. And because it is a lot faster. But yarn can be very aggressive on your bandwidth, and npm might work better if you don&#8217;t have the best internet connection.



Even with the changes that have come to npm the last year, yarn is faster. And I guess they have a lot more freedom to make something that is a joy to use when they don&#8217;t need to think about compatibility.



Imagine how many much stuff that would break, including tutorials if NPM did a re-write that changed the interfaces?