---
url: /post/b1862cf7-9234-4ce9-892f-98c25028753e
date: 2018-01-16
title: "Structure"
---

A few words on structuring your react app. Don&#8217;t think too much about structure, keep it as flat as possible, for as long as possible. Use redux to make your state sane, and use higher order components to limit code duplication. But keep one component per file.



I&#8217;m a fan of structuring stuff when it hurts to not do it. Then I would look into making modules out of the stuff that is just used one place.



Let&#8217;s say you have a route where you add and edit blog posts; have all the stuff that is just used there in a folder, and then have the main component you use in the Editor in the moduleFolderName/index.js.



React won&#8217;t solve any of your problems with sturcturing your code base, but neither will anything else.



But one thing that is more imporant than most is to use eslint. Base it on a sane set of configurations like the airbnb one and modify it to fit your requirements. Linting is a good way to keep your codebase sane and a good way to filter out some stuff.



It won&#8217;t replace automated testing or proptypes but is a important addtion.



One last thing I personally think is important to think about when you have a large app, try move everything that is used multiple places to a single place. And then try to make sure that each module in your component structure never import outside of it&#8217;s own folder, except for state and common. I also always start with the following structure: state(everything related to redux), utils(javascript code) and components(react code).