---
url: /post/b8d2dfdc-6425-43cf-be4a-62d98e04f6e1
date: 2018-01-05
title: "Forms"
---

Building forms using React can be a little bit of a hassle until you get used to it. Some use thrid party tools to make it less cumbersome. I personally think that the default is good enough.



The way you build forms is to have a state element for each &#8220;thing&#8221; in your form, and then you need to write updater methods and methods to deal with every other event you need to deal with.



It isn&#8217;t difficult, but there are a few stumbling blocks along the way. D not write your code as anyonymous code, write them as functions either arrow or regular in your component class, because it will slow down the rendering. I personally use arrow functions to deal with the rendering, because I don&#8217;t need to bind them.



You could of course do something like this



const update (key) =\> { return (e) =\> { let o = o[key]() = e.target.value this.setState(o) } }



But I suspect it will be more code than the usual updater



updateUsername = e =\> this.setState(value: e.target.value)



It depends on how much other stuff, if any, you need to do.



There are some libraries out there that claims they make it easier. I personally have not seen anything that I think is worth the hassle.



Building forms with react can be a lot of extra code. And you need state for each one, and a updater for each one. But you have full control of what&#8217;s going on with each form element. And I personally think it is far easier to debug forms using react than some other systems I&#8217;ve used where they try to be smart.