---
url: /post/830461cd-b64e-4e63-b989-f7b133b1e0f2
date: 2018-01-08
title: "Context"
---

The official Context API documentation says that it is **experimental**, and that you should **avoid** using it. I don&#8217;t use it, and I have never done so with anything that is in production. I personally think that using for example redux solves many if not most of the problems that most people try to solve with the Context API.



I&#8217;ll explain what it is, and what it does, even though I don&#8217;t recommend it at the moment.



Context is a second way to pass data between components. It got a lot more attention when I started to learn react. The reason is that the API never was stable enough to be worth the hassle to be honest. What Context tries to solve is the problem of passing data through components structures without having to pass the prop through every single Component.



Let&#8217;s say you have Five components nested under each other.



Like this: Comp1->Comp2->Comp3->Comp4->Comp5, and you have a element in Comp1 state, that tells what kind of colour the button in Comp5 should have. You define a &#8220;getChildContext&#8221; method in Comp1 that returns an object which is the context, and then everything under that component may access the context through this.context.



As of React 16 aka fiber the Context API is broken. There is a api for updating the context, but it is broken. It might be because it will be deprecated or because it will be fixed in some future release. I personally think that redux solves most of these problems, because you can pass props to any component anywhere in your code base without going through deep component structures.