---
title: "Emacs: Use-package"
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
url: "/2010/10/11/emacs/0"
type: "post"
date: 2018-10-11T10:00:00+02:00
---

use-package is my preferred way of dealing with emacs packages. You can
find more information about it
[here](https://github.com/jwiegley/use-package). What I ended up with
before I started to really get into use-package is that you have all of
these packages, that are installed and loaded in a specific way. Where
you have some config stuff in the beginning and modes and other stuff
are loaded in a specific order to make it all work etc. Use-package
tries to fix this by making these simple idependent statments that can
be in any order you want.

The way it works is that you write for example (use-package foo) this
tells us that this package should be loaded. And then you can add
:ensure t if you want use-package to also install it if it needs to. If
you also need to do something (like setting a variable or ten) before
loading it you can do this by adding something like :init (setq b
1)(run-function) etc. And you can also add code you want to run after it
have been loaded like enabling a mode with :config (foo-mode 1).

The complete result would look something like (use-package foobar
:ensure t :init (setq a 1)(run-function) :config (foo-mode 1))

Then you can also add stuff like :after (org org-babel) if you need to
control that something should first load after all of some other
packages have loaded.

I think use-package is a very useful tool to keep a flat sturcutre to
your package configuration, while still making sure all of them are
independednt. My config got a lot cleaner after I started using it.
