---
title: "Minimalism."
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
url: "/2013/11/08/Minimalism/27"
type: "post"
date: 2013-11-08T01:00:00+01:00
---

The idea of minimalism have been the philospohy that have had the
strongest impact on me, and my life.

Many people think about minimalism as a philospophy where you don't own
anything. And that is wrong -- WRONG.

At least the way I look at things.

I'm a minimaist. But, I am also very pragmatic.

Let's take a look on my aproach to minialism. Let's first take a
minimalistic look at everything you have. Your physical belongings, and
digital stuff, like all of the apps your have installed on your Mac,
iPhone and iPad.

**Apps**. I often browse through my applications and ask myself: Do I
really use this? Do I actually need it?

Minimalism is not about having as few apps as possible. It is about
having the apps your really use and need. I don't need more than one
podcasting app on my phone.

But, I need more than one writing app, for various reasons.

**Physical items**. When it comes to physical items I often do a "review"
of all of the stuff I own, and ask myself the exact same questions.
There is a major difference though. Any app installed on any of my
devices is something I can re-download, if I ever need them again.

But. There is also a lot of stuff I own that I realize I used to use a
lot -- but don't need anymore.

And, I usually just place them in a box, and review that box a few
months later. I get rid of them if they have been in there from 3-6
months without needing using them.

Some of it will be sold, given away -- while others end up in the trash.

**Buying new stuff** is the important, and a bit harder part of
minimalism. It is a important step to avvoid having to do a lot of
reviewing of the stuff you already own.

I don't really buy that much physical stuff, I have never been that into
it. But, I do buy a lot of apps and content. At least when I have the
money for it.

Being on a very tight student budget solves many of these issues. I
can't really buy anything I want anymore.

My current process is to put everything I want in a Omnifocus project. I
does not matter if it is a app, a book, audiobook or some physical item
I need.

I let them lay there until I have some disposable income, and look long
and hard at the items in there. Get rid of anything that I don't need or
want anymore. And decide which of them that will give me the most
pleasure or that will solve the biggest problems for me.

The **reason** i really love minimalism is that it gives me the freedom to
don't focus on stuff. I can be creative and use as much as possible of
my time on what matters to me. Like writing, shooting pictures, reading,
meditating and enjoying life.

(#blog)
