---
title: "NSA."
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
url: "/2013/09/17/NSA/14"
type: "post"
date: 2013-09-17T02:00:00+02:00
---

Like most other geeks, and regular people that are conserned with
security and privacy -- I am looking into what I am going to do with the
data I am storing in the cloud.

There is more or less two different places where I store a lot of data;
Dropbox and iCloud. And a few places I store some data, OmniPrecense and
Evernote.

First of all. I do not believe that neither the NSA or any of my cloud
services provider would have any interest in my data. And secondly I do
trust Dropbox, Apple and Google as much as you should trust a major
company.

This is not about me doing anything secret. This is not about me not
trusting big american companies. **This is about principles.**

So I started the process of figuring out what to do here, a few days
ago. Or I started thinking about it in abstract ways many weeks ago.
But, the doing part started yesterday.

The first question that popped into my head was: what the hell am I
storing in the cloud? Dropbox: -- 1Password keychain -- More or less any
file I have, or had for the last three years.

iCloud: -- iOS backups -- DayOne-data -- And some other minor apps.

The next thing I started thinking about was: what should I do about
this? And I'm not too sure yet. But, what I am going to do is to move
everything that I do not have to store there away from Dropbox.

There is just three things I need to store on Dropbox: -- 1Password --
nvAlt textfiles -- Files I share from my site, and files too large for
e-mail.

iCloud is another story. The stuff I store there is already the bare
minimum. So, there is not much I can or will do about it.

**Problem.** The problem with dropbox is that there is no "end-to-end"
encryption. Example: I use backblaze to backup all of my files; but the
only person in the world with access to my files there is me, from my
account.

Dropbox is not doing this, because of their fancy web-frontend and all
of that.

**Solutions.** There is not a lot of cheap and viable solutions for me
right now. But, I will consider getting into
(Transporter)[<http://www.filetransporter.com>] later.

I really hate having to remove 99% of my stuff from Dropbox, and I think
I need to invest in some extra external drive and to upgrade my
"On-site" backup plan beacuse of it.

Let's see what the future brings us.

(#blog)
