---
title: "My paper system."
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
type: "post"
date: 2013-08-23T02:00:00+02:00
---

When you look at any system, I think you will find a few important
things about them. -- What is the purpose? -- What parts are in them,
and what are they solving? -- What can you change about it to make it
more efficient, or better in any other way?

My paper system is very simple, and I always try to keep it as simple as
possible; without loosing anything important.

First things first, I try to have a work setup that I can put into one
of my computer bags in about two minutes.

Let's get back to pen and paper.

**Pens.** I always carry my Pilot Metropolitan and my black Retro 51; and
a few refills for both. I prefer writing my a fountain pen, it's both
about the feel and how my writing looks with it. But, they don't work on
everything; so I use my Retro 51 on paper that don't work with fountain
pens.

My Retro 51 is also my go to pen, when I am in class. The reason may be
valid, or not; but I will be taking a lot of notes in a short period of
time, and I don't want to think about if the ink is dry enough when I
turn the page.

**Paper.** There is two paper products I always have in my bag; and one
that I always carry on my person. They is a large Moleskine notebook,
Index Cards; and a Field Notes is always in my back pocket.

They are all different, and serve three very distinct purposes.

_Field Notes_ is a brilliant product. They are cheap, lasts just about
long enough -- and works great for what they have been designed to do.

The thing I use them for is to just take quick notes when I am not in
front of a computer; this is the only place I will write tasks I have to
do or ideas.

_Moleskine_. They are not cheap, but I think they are the perfect
product if you look at the combination of availability, paper quality
and price. The fact that I can walk into any book store or pen and paper
shop and get one is the main reason I am using them.

The thing I am using them for is journaling, writing or notes during
meeting or classes.

_Index cards_ is one of my favourite "hack" items I have picked up from
Merlin Mann. I use them for just about anything that I need to be moving
around to figure out how to do something.

Everything from brainstorming, to just loose topics that I have to
connect together; for example in a argument analysis.

Good luck with your paper system

(#blog)
