---
title: "Alfred, Marked2 and Scrivener."
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
url: "/2013/11/22/Alfred/34"
type: "post"
date: 2013-11-22T01:00:00+01:00
---

I use Scrivener a lot; I write long articles, all of my papers at the
university and a few book projects in Scrivener. There is a 90% chance
that Scrivener is open when you see me write on my Macbook Air. And when
I was looking at the Marked2 settings screen last night, I saw something
cool. The setting makes it possible for marked to also open Scrivener
with the active project when you open it in marked.

Marked is an app by Brett Terpstra that can preview more or less
anything that have a pre-processor. And you can do a lot of different
stuff with it. It is the worlds coolest previewing app. Check it out
[here](http://marked2app.com).

There is two different ways I use Scrivener, I either just write, in
that scenario I just want scrivener to be open. But, sometimes I do
write, review, write, review all of them in 5-10 mintue intervalls. Then
I want both Marked and Scrivener open. I didn't want to change Marked to
be the default app for Scrivener files, something I think would have
worked. So, I created a workflow in Alfred to solve this.

I have made three Screencasts to set this up; one for Alfred, one for
Scrivener and one to just show how it works.


## Setting up Marked {#setting-up-marked}

This screencast shows how to set everything up in Marked


## Setting up alfred. {#setting-up-alfred.}

In this screencast I will first show you how to enable a action sorting
setting on file action in Alfred, this makes it so that the action you
used last always will be on top.

Then we well go on to create an action for scrivener files, that file
open them in Marked.


## Usage {#usage}

This screencast shows you how to use the damn thing. Just type ‘name of
scrivener project, hit the right key on your keyboard and select the
Scrivener action.


## Links {#links}

-   [Marked](http://marked2app.com)

-   [Scrivener](http://www.literatureandlatte.com/scrivener.php)

(#blog)
