---
title: "My new GTD system – TaskPaper."
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
type: "post"
date: 2013-12-23T01:00:00+01:00
---

This is the third draft, and I really hope it is the last one.

I have used a lot of different GTD and task management apps. The four
systems that have been sticking longest are Things, Remember The Milk,
OmniFocus. I also used a few custom text file based systems in my Linux
and Unix days.

My current GTD system worked great for the last two years, and the
systems before that lated about the same length. But my needs changed
with me shifting away from doing software development and onto being a
full-time student, and doing a lot of writing.

I used to have a capture method that was all about going straight into
digital. I switched over to my mac, or picked up my phone when I needed
to add something to either OmniFocus, RTM or Things. But I stopped doing
this. It was must simpler to just write it down in a pocket sized
notebook.

Anyway.

Today, I did the damn thing. I moved everything out of OmniFocus and
into TaskPaper and things. I keep everything that don't have a due date,
or is a repeating task in TaskPaper. And that is about 99% of what I do.
And the rest is in Reminders, for now. I might change it later.

**Why TaskPaper?** There was a few things that intrigued me about
TaskPaper. It is a very flexible system that isn't anything more than
plain text. I can combine tasks and regular text in the same document.
And I can manage it all from anything that can read and write to a
simple text file.

TaskPaper is similar to OmniFocus in one way, it is very flexible when
it comes to sub-projects and tasks. Something I am a big user of. This
is also one thing most GTD solutions is terrible at.

I can't use anything that is designed to have X levels of projects or
tasks. And I can't use something that isn't designed to handle
everything from two active to 200 active.

Anyway. TaskPaper is the most flexible, simplest and the most effective
way to add and process tasks that I have seen to this day.

I'm not 100% sure how this will go. But it is exciting to try something
new. And I'll post a real review of TaskPaper, when I have been using it
for a while.

Check out TaskPaper
[here](http://www.hogbaysoftware.com/products/taskpaper)

(#blog)
