---
title: "The Mobile Writer"
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
url: "/2013/12/21/The/48"
type: "post"
date: 2013-12-21T01:00:00+01:00
---

I saw that Patrick Rhone mentioned a new book by Julio Ojeda-Zapata, a
few weeks ago. It is called "The Mobile Writer", and it is one of the
few books about writing that I really like. I have read it more than
once. And I think it is something everyone that who is or is thinking
about writing on their phone or tablet should read.

The thing that really clicked with me and this book was that the author
started with telling us, the readers they every computer, tablet and
phone on the market is capable writing tools.

**You don't need anything fancy.** But, a good writing app might make it
more pleasant to write on your mobile device.

He also interviewed different writers, about the tools they use. Before
he moves on to talking about different hardware options, apps,
accessories. I have not seen many books on this subject that really goes
into all of the options, and addresses the different options, and what
the real pro and cons for the different options are.

My approach to writing is to use the best tool within arms reach. It
might be my MacBook Air, iPhone or iPad. And sometimes I use pen and
paper.

Some people like hardware keyboards, while others are perfectly happy
with using the onscreen keyboard while writing on their phone or tablet.
I don't write very fast on any of them. And I have come to the
conclusion that it is the act of thinking and to figure out what to
write that is the time sink, and not the typing.

I used to be one of the crazy people that only wrote on my fancy Apple
computer. These days I write on the best option within arms reach.

You should go and get
“[The Mobile Writer](http://www.ojezap.com/books/the-mobile-writer/)“.
It's not expensive, and it is a great way to spend the night.

(#blog)
