---
title: "iCloud"
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
type: "post"
date: 2013-09-30T02:00:00+02:00
---

I've had quite a few iCloud issues during the last month, something that
made me think about the real problems with iCloud. And they are not what
you might think, but more a result of it.


## Contacting support. {#contacting-support.}

The key most important thing, is to make sure that you can re-produce
your issue in an Apple application. This is very important. Because, you
will be caught between Apple and the third-party developer, if you can't
do it. The third party, can't help you; and Apple won't.


## My problems. {#my-problems.}

So, my problem was that nothing, that use iCloud could upload or
download data. This was everything from DayOne and ByWord to Numbers and
Pages.

But, backups, calendar and contacts worked as expected.

This is bad!


## Why Dropbox is better. {#why-dropbox-is-better.}

Here is the basic principle. I expect that my account here stuck in some
way. And that Apple have very bad tools to debug these kinds of issues.

So, let's say I was caught in the same kind of situation with Dropbox,
and I had everything stored there synced to my Macbook Air(which I
have). And I decided that I was tired of arguing with support. Then I
could just move my data over to another folder. Delete my account.
Create a new account. And move the files back over. Re-configure all of
my devices that use Dropbox.


## Closed containers. {#closed-containers.}

Apple is the only ones that can do anything about this problem. Their
approach is cleaner, but harder. Dropbox is more of a hack, a hack that
works, but shouldn't. It works and everyone from developers to medium
computer savvy users understand the basic principles.

iCloud works great for a few uses. But, I will move everything off,
iCloud if this happens once more. And I will also make sure that
everything is ready to be moved off iCloud by the end of this week.

(#blog)
