---
title: "Going back to Chrome, for a few days."
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
type: "post"
date: 2013-11-21T01:00:00+01:00
---

A little bit of my browser history. I started using a browser called
Netscape in the late 90's, after getting pissed off by Internet
Explorer. Then I moved on to Opera, Mozilla and then Firefox when it
finally was launched. Then I used Firefox until Chrome came to the mac
in 2010. There are also a few periods with Safari in there.

I have been a Safari user for the majority of my browsing since the
cloud tab feature came to iOS, OS X and iCloud. Safari isn't perfect,
but I still think it is the best browser for users of both OS X and iOS.
There is two areas where I use Chrome, that is web-development and
anything related to flash.

I decided to go back and try to use Chrome as my main browser for a
while, sometime for about two weeks ago. And so, I did. And a switched
back five minutes ago.

Here is my reflections on why. And a few words on why I switched.e

The main reason I did the switch was to test out a few extensions that
isn't available to Safari. And I thought the best way to do this was to
use Chrome as my main browser. Here is the funny thing, I did not end up
using any of them, at all.

Chrome and Safari is more or less the same. Both of them are fast,
stable and works like you expect them to do. And then there are a few
subtle differences, like which side all the extension icons is, and a
few settings that only one of the two is. The single thing that made me
make the switch back was cloud tab, aka be able to access any of the
tabs I have open on any of my device from any of the other devices and
the ability to have a blank page as the default when you start the
browser or open a new tab.

Back on Safari, and happy about it.

(#blog)
