---
title: "Swear words."
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
type: "post"
date: 2013-12-19T01:00:00+01:00
---

I know that some people have a big problem with them. And I can
understand that. But the thing I have zero understanding for the need
some people have to get rid of everything in this world that they don't
like.

I don't like Android phones, or Windows computers; but I would never
dream about trying to sensor or to get rid of the damn things.

I try to keep my writing, and speaking as close to each other as
possible. What I mean by this is that I try to let my writing to make me
a better speaker, and to let my speaking turn me into a better writer.
The most important part of this for me is to always write what ever I
would have said in real life.

I would call George Bush "a fucking asshole" both in real world, no
matter whom I am talking to. And I should also do the same when I write.

Let's move on to the real problem with "bleeping" or censoring the few
words that most people consider "bad". There are not much about the
words themselves that are bad. It is just that we consider them bad.
English swear words are usually about sex, and bodies. While for example
my native language of Norwegian have similar words, but they are usually
about hell or satan.

One argument I often hear regarding swear words is that parents don't
want their children to be exposed to them. Fair enough. And I understand
the thinking behind this. But I don't buy it.

First of all. All children will learn every swear word available as soon
as they start in kindergarden, pre-school or school. Trust me. They will
learn every single one. And that is just because we look at "fuck" as a
bad word, and not because of the word "fuck" itself.

Why can't parents take a similar approach to swear words, as good
parents take to talking about children about sex?

And then we have the bleeping. Some idea that had to come from American
conservatives. Anyway. It don't work. Never have. Never will be.

First of all, the thing you are doing when bleeping something out is
that you are highlighting the fact that some person said something bad,
for everyone listening. While I would guess that most people would not
notice if you didn't do that. And the other problem is that most people
always go for the worst word they can think of in that context, when
something is bleeped out.

Should oversensitive americans dictate what kind of words the rest of
the world is allowed to hear on TV, Radio and in podcasts?

(#blog)
