---
title: "Be good at one thing."
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
url: "/2013/08/27/Be/9"
type: "post"
date: 2013-08-27T02:00:00+02:00
---

There is this cool and unique, hot dog shop, here in Bergen. It's very
old school and there is almost always a line. I can't eat there since I
am a vegetarian, but I really enjoy the concept.

And everyone I know that have eaten there, love it.

First things first, this is not the kind of store that have every single
thinkable fast food thing you can think about shop. I'll guess you have
them all over the world; 20 types of pizza; and kebab, burgers and
everything else.

This little shop have a few different kinds of hotdogs, and jus the
classy kinds. I don't think they have anything with bacon. I think there
is either ten or under ten different types of sausage there.

When you jump on to the "toppings" or whatever you want to call them, I
have seen a development during the last ten years, where people for some
strange reason put on from ketchup to potato salad or even shrimp salad
on their hot dogs.

This shop don't do any of that. You can onion, either raw or the crunchy
kind, ketchup and mustard; that's it.

And when it comes to drinks; you can get a glass of juice for free, if
you want a coke or something; well then you have to go and get that
somewhere else.

The thing I like about this shop is not the food, but more the concept.
The guy that runs it have been able to distil what he is trying to
deliver down to the purest and most core and true to itself experience
possible. And people like it.

There is nothing I love more than the kind of businesses that you get
the impression that they have found the one thing they are and want to
be good at.

(#blog)
