---
title: "The iPhone 5s camera."
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
url: "/2013/09/12/The/11"
type: "post"
date: 2013-09-12T02:00:00+02:00
---

I follow most of the Apple news, but I don't really write or care that
much about most of it. The main reason is that most of the cutting edge
technology today is not very important for me and they kind of work I am
doing.

But, the new camera and flash exited me quite a bit. I will not buy a
5s. I don't upgrade my devices before they break.

The key things about the new iPhone 5s's camera is: -- Larger image
sensor -- Larger aperture -- Revolutionary flash

I will not go into the details here. But I want to write about what I
hope this camera gives us.

The problem with almost all of the current phone cameras out there is
that they only deliver decent pictures outside in sunlight. The outcome
in most other situation is something noisy and close to useless.

I'm not talking about useless for Facebook, Twitter or in IM. Most
people might not think about this. But I assume that most people would
like to print some of their picture or do something on a larger screen
at some point.

I do a lot of albums both as presents and for people I know. And I have
also made quite a few presentations for bigger birthday celebrations
through the years. And my experience is that most pictures taken with a
phone (includes the iPhone 5) is usually useless when you print it. You
will see that it is noticeable worse that what you would get out of a
midrange point and shoot camera.

I often feel bad for the people I see shooting all of their vacation
pictures with a phone camera. All of the pictures my stepfather shot
with a decent point and shoot and a SLR from the 80s and the pictures my
grandfather shot with a decent point and shoot during my childhood will
be miles ahead of what any phone have been able to shoot up to this day.

So what I hope for in the 5s, is a camera that finally can preform close
to a real camera. Not because I want to get rid of my DSLR; but I would
like to be able to get a useable pictures from my phone every not and
then.

(#blog)
