---
title: "1Password 4 for OS X – a few days later."
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
type: "post"
date: 2013-10-06T02:00:00+02:00
---

I wrote about 1Password 4, before the weekend, and thought I might want
to revisit it after spending some real time with the application. And
not just the 20 minutes, right before I wrote the piece.

There is two features in this release I really love: the audit section,
and the menubar version of the application.

**Audit**. What the audit section is doing for you, is to tell you all of
the password you should change. I really love this. Like I wrote in my
previous post; you could do it with smart folders. But, I think a lot
more people is going to use this. Because, its right there. It takes you
one click to see all your weak passwords. Or three clicks to get an
overview of passwords that have not been changed in everything from six
months to over three years.

You also have a dupicate section. This will display every account where
you use the same password as somewhere else. This might not look that
big. But, trust me -- it is. It was a major pain in the ass to do this
with version three. You had to configure every different password you
used as a "standard" as a smart folder.

**Menubar.** I did not expect to use this one that much. But, I was wrong.
Most of the times when I start 1Password, it is to just copy some
password to somewhere outside the browser. And its amazing to be able to
do this from the menubar.

Its one of these productivity hacks, where three clicks becomes one.

And still, 1Password 4 is a solid upgrade, and everyone should upgrade
as soon as they can afford to.

Sent from my iPad

(#blog)
