---
title: "Some Macbook Air advice."
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
type: "post"
date: 2013-09-10T02:00:00+02:00
---

It's been a while since I have written anything. First of all: it's not
because I am leaving this site or anything like that. There have not
been any time to write much at all, during the last few weeks.

I'm still trying to figure out the perfect "groove" for being an
effective and quality oriented student.

The other reason for not doing much is that I am working with a larger
piece about DayOne and what I think it is great for. And even more
specific: why you should consider using it.

But, let's get back to the Macbook Air.

I have owned three Macbook Airs, since 2011, and I have loved each of
them.

**Expectations.** The key thing you need to understand if you are moving
from a Macbook Pro or a Mac mini to a Macbook Air is that it will not
have the same kind of processing power. Not close to it.

To be completely honest. The only place I notice any lag is in
Lightroom, when zoom in on a RAW image and have to wait a few seconds
while it loads it.

**Don't upgrade!** Seriously, don't upgrade every year. Two of my three
Macbook Airs have been the 2011 model(because of a soda spill incident).
And when I upgraded the to this 2013 model almost a month ago, I noticed
very little speed improvement. Some, but not a lot.

You might consider upgrading from the 2012 to 2013, if battery life is
very important. But I don't think upgrading every single year is
something worth it for most people.

**Understand.** This is very important. You should understand the
difference between the different Apple laptop models, before you buy
something.

You have the Macbook Pro, which is very fast and a bit more expensive.
And you have the Macbook Air; which is cheaper, better battery life and
fast enough for most people.

The fact that I can walk from my flat, with my laptop a few text books
and no power brick and spend between 10-12 hours away before I need to
charge it is amazing.

(#blog)
