---
title: "You should not tell me how to use my computer."
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
url: "/2013/11/30/You/37"
type: "post"
date: 2013-11-30T01:00:00+01:00
---

I write on anything. Seriously I do. My main writing tool is my Macbook
Air, and Scrivener. But that don't mean that it is the right, or
available tool in any situation. I write in all kinds of different
notebooks, like Moleskines and FiieldNotes; but I also write on napkins
and paper towels, when I don't have anything else available.

I write on the best available tool in any situation.

Sometimes I hear arguments for Apples decision, or need to don't provide
any real ways to provide communications between apps, and they piss me
off to no end. One thing is to keep stuff like flash -- and other
obvious terrible technologies from iOS. This does not mean that they
should not provide a really good and solid way to make it possible for
themselves and third party developers to go the two inces that is
remaining between iOS 7 and what we want to make iPad's a real options
for people that don't need a laptop.

iOS devices is the future. And the iPad could be a laptop replacement
for a large portion of what I do very soon.

I'm a writer, student, developer and photographer. I need a Mac for the
last two items. I don't need a laptop to the first two, and I don't
really want to carry my Macbook Air everywhere for that either. But,
there is a few reasons for doing just that.

**Scrivener**. The first -- and main reason is that there is still not a
version of Scrivener for iOS. It is in the works, and this is not a
major issue for me. I would love to have it, but is isn't a major issue.
I do a manual sync between various Mac + iOS writing apps to have a safe
and usable way to sync various writing projects between my mac.

**Sharing**. The bult in sharing menu in iOS is great, but we need to be
able to provide third party apps to add stuff to it. I don't mean the
android way where you have 100 items in there. Third party apps should
have the possibility to show up there. And we also need a settings area
to manage this. To provide us -- the users a way to say: Instapaper,
Pinbook, Safari and Tweetbot is that apps I need to show up there when I
hit the sharing meny somewhere and the content is a URL. This current
method was cute in iOS 6, but it is neither cute or funny anymore.

**Communicating between apps**. Another major issue is to have a realy way
to do inter-app communcation. If I open reeder and select "E-mail
article". Then I have the posibility to e-mail the article -- without
leaving the app. I want this. I want all app developers to provide this.
We need these modal dialogs to be available to everyone.

I never use it to e-mail stuff. But, I would love to have it to send
stuff to OmniFocus, or to send something to one of the 50 text editors I
use. This is a general useful feature that started to show up in iOS 6.
And now we need it to be made available.

Seriously. There might not be a very bright future for iOS, if we don't
see a real revolution in terms of sharing data between apps, doing
interaction between apps and a real sharing menu in iOS 8.

And remember, one thing is to be able to share data between apps,
something I think is very important. Another issue is to let you have
some kind of dialog that belongs to another app, inside your app. I
would love to be able to have the real "New OmniFocus action" dialog in
any context. Imagine how great stuff like this would have been, if we
didn't have to leave App A to do something in App B and C.

(#blog)
