---
title: "New Squarespace apps."
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
type: "post"
date: 2013-11-19T01:00:00+01:00
---

Squarespace finally update all of their iOS apps yesterday. They also
removed the old management app and added two new apps to replace the
old. This is one of these updates that makes you realize how terrible it
was prior to an update.

The old management app looked very dated, and have been the same since I
first got to squarespace back in 2011. The old functionality of the
management app was managing a blog, statistics and comment management.
This have been replaced by a dedicated blog app and a dedicated metrics
app. They both look modern, clean and is amazing to use. I don't know
for the new blog app includes support for managing comments.

They also have two other apps that received minor updates. The note app
is a app for drafting notes or blog posts, and it supports sending it to
squarespace, Evernote etc. My main problem with this app in the passed
was that you could not use it in landscape mode. This have been fixed,
and it is a great app for when you want to type out a blog post on the
go.

One great new feature in the new blog app is that it support most of the
features from the desktop web interface. This makes it possible to write
link list style blog posts, something I have asked squarespace support
about numerous times during the last 12 months. But, there is one thing
I don't like about it: you can't write in landscape orientation. This is
a typical 1.0 issue that I think will be fixed shortly.

The new metrics app is just a simple and flexible app to browse your
site stats. It's pretty cool and includes a lot more information than
the old management app --- which is great.

The last app is the portfolio one. It lets you sync one or more gallery
locally to your phone or iPad. It is great for showing a gallery to
clients if you use it as a portfolio or your vacation pictures to your
grandmother that don't have wifi.

I have two additional complaints. Only two of the apps have iPad
versions: blog and portfolio; it would be so great if all of them were
available on both devices. And it would also be cool if the notes app
could sync all of the posts with draft status in a selected squarespace
blog.

We are finally back to a point with squarespace were the app situation
don't make me consider switching to Squarespace.

(#blog)
