---
title: "1Password 4 for OS X."
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
url: "/2013/10/04/1Password/21"
type: "post"
date: 2013-10-04T02:00:00+02:00
---

1Password is one of the most used apps across both my iOS and OS X
devices. I never log into anything without going into 1Password on my
iPhone and iPad; and rarely without using either browser plugins or the
app on OS X.

This is one of the apps that I think should be included on any Mac or
iOS device. This statement may be bold and I understand if you are
sceptic regarding password management apps. To put it like this,
1Password is the only password management app that I have been able to
stick with.


## Design {#design}

They have refreshed the design of their apps in this release, to match
up with the same refresh they did with the iOS update a few months back.
And it was about time they did this, both the OS X and iOS versions
looked dated prior to their 4.0 releases.

I don't think there is anything controversial in this release. Everyone
who used the old version will recognize it; and like always: all new
users will love both the app and the design.


## 1Password mini / Menubar item. {#password-mini-menubar-item.}

I have a yes, or no reliationship to menubar items. I think they are
better than having apps in the dock that you need to have running all
the time. And they are amazing for stuff you need to access quick; like
dropbox, twitter clients etc. And this is a great new feature from
1Password.


## Audit section {#audit-section}

This is the feature I have been craving in 1Password since I started
using it in 2010(or 2011, I dont remember exactly when). This is just
brilliant. It have a few key, and very important features: -- List of
all passwords that are not unique in your 1Password database. --
Passwords that have not been changed in 3+ years, 1-3 years and 12-6
months. -- Weak passwords

This alone would get me to upgrade. I can in just a few clicks right out
of the box get a great overview of all the passwords I should change.


## iCloud vs Dropbox {#icloud-vs-dropbox}

I have not tested the iCloud sync, and I'm not sure if I am going to do
it. There is one very good reason for this.

There have been a few situations where I've had some real issues with
iCloud document storage. The result was that none of the applications
was able to upload or download anything from iCloud. And every time this
happened I had to go through a few levels of Apple support to get it
sorted out.

This could in theory happen in Dropbox. But, dropbox is a much more open
system. And I have a script that makes a copy from Dropbox to my local
machine, every day. This means that I still have the data if Dropbox
locks me out.

There is probably a way to do this in iCloud, but I dont want to do
anything regarding my passwords and other important information in a
unsupported way. 1Password might have a export option. Anyway, this is a
part of my "dont store anything extermly important in iCloud".

I recomend people to use Dropbox, if you need sync; and remember to have
routines for making copies of it to a local location if you do sync.

Check out 1Password here[here](https://agilebits.com/onepassword). You
will find a trial versionn for the mac version there. They also have a
windows version and an android reader app.

Sent from my iPad

(#blog)
