---
title: "Quiet."
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
url: "/2013/10/23/Quiet/23"
type: "post"
date: 2013-10-23T02:00:00+02:00
---

I know things have been very quiet, here for a while now. This is not
because I am taking a break, or have left this site or anything like
that. The reason is that I am working on something new. On this site.

When I "started from scratch" with the blog on this site, some time back
I had the idea to start working on content in a different way. I did not
want to just write blog posts that most people won't see a few days
after it's been published. I wanted to write good pieces about all the
apps I use, and in some cases all the ways I am using them. I want long
content that I can link together in interesting way.

I also want to extend this to workflows, productivity topics, podcasts
and all kinds of stuff I have learnt, and am learning today; as a geek,
developer, writer, photographer and productivity nut.

There is already some content [here](http://hjertnes.me/content/) and
there is more to come. This project will require a lot more time before
it is something I could call "off the ground". But, I am working on it,
and I am trying to push out new content as soon as the stuff I have in
Scrivener is good enough.

The other side off this project, is that I am going to work hard on keep
as much as possible as up to date as possible after completing
everything. So, that you know that my content about Markdown, Byword or
nvAlt always will a good source.

Anyway. I will continue to write on the blog part of this site as well,
but I will mainly use it to inform about new content, updates etc. And
there will also be a newsletter soon. You can sign up for it
[here](http://hjertnes.me/letter/).

I hope you enjoy it!

(#blog)
