---
title: "iOS devices, and the average user."
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
url: "/2013/12/05/iOS/38"
type: "post"
date: 2013-12-05T01:00:00+01:00
---

There are a number of people in my family that now own iPad's and
iPhone's. Some of them, like my mother got the iPad as her first
computer, and then she got an iPhone soon after. She never cared for, or
about computers prior to surfing on my iPad.

And there are also people like my grandfather, he used a computer at
work for the last 15 years of his career. He have owned a few regular
computers as well. But he didn't really use them that much. They were
used to write a few e-mails a month, paying the bills and sometimes
surfing the web or writing letters; you know the kind people send in the
mail. He got an iPad last year, and both him and my grandmother(that
didn't have any experience at all (read: never used any kind of
computer)) could start using it without any help; after I configured the
WiFi and e-mail.

This is just amazing. One things is how easy it is to use the iOS
devices. That is great, the fact that everything from toddlers to
grandparents can pick up an iOS device and use them without much, if any
help.

This is not the key point for me. I have set up a lot, and I mean a lot
of computers for relatives during the last 10 years. But there is
nothing that have been that available to people like the iPad or the
iPhone have been. The important thing Apple did with the iPad was to
make something everyone want to use.

They are not excited about the device, they are excited to use the
device.

(#blog)
