---
title: "Should I buy a new iPad"
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
type: "post"
date: 2013-10-29T01:00:00+01:00
---

I don't think any of the new iPad models was much of a surprise for
anyone that have been following Apple for a while. I think the only
surprise was that they renamed the iPad.

Most intelligent people expected the iPad mini to get a retina screen,
and they also expected the big-iPad to get the design of iPad mini.

It is no surprise that I still use iPhone 4S and iPad2. And I don't
think I will buy a new iPhone before I either can't update to the most
recent version of iOS, or that I break it.

But. The iPad is different. I have not decided if I should buy a new
iPad or not, this year. My main problem with the full sized iPad is that
it is too close to the size, weight and batter capacity. The 12 hour
battery life on my 2012 Macbook Air, is more or less everything I need,
most days. But, I also carry my iPad most days. The reason for this is
to have something to write on, if I need to do something when my Macbook
Air is dead.

Since my iPad will continue to work as a pdf-reader, writing device and
preferred place to do my OmniFocus weekly review -- I don't think I will
buy any new full sized iPad in a while.

This leaves the iPad mini.

The reason I consider the iPad mini, is that it would be nice to have a
small, iOS device with recent hardware that I can fit in my jacket. And
this device is also something I can fit in a stand and use a full sized
keyboard with. Like for example: --
[Origami
Workstation](http://goincase.com/shop/incase-origami-workstation-for-ipad-2) -- [Apple Wireless
Keyboard](http://www.apple.com/keyboard/)

Don't get me wrong, the full sized iPad is great for writing. It is a
great device to write on, if you place it in some kind of stand. But, I
don't think the full sized iPad is that great to write on, while holding
it.

And my experience with the current iPad mini is that it is an iPad, with
a weight and size that reminds more of the iPhone; which makes it great
to thumb type on, while still having the great power of the
iPad-platform.

In other words. I will probably buy an iPad mini, in the coming months.

(#blog)
