---
title: "The preferred tool, is not always the best one."
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
url: "/2013/12/26/The/51"
type: "post"
date: 2013-12-26T01:00:00+01:00
---

All of us have our preferred ways to write. And some of us even have
preferred ways to write, different kinds of things. For example, I
prefer to write my brain dump, in other words stuff I am going to do and
my journaling into FieldNotes notebooks. And then transferring them into
TaskPaper and Day One later.

This is to have another round of reviewing before I start the doing. And
to let my journal entries have a second round of editing before making
it into my digital journal.

While I prefer doing my blogging and other kinds of writing on my
Macbook Air.

But the tool I prefer to use is not always the best one. I will without
doubt write into my notebook if I have it on my person, and I'm sitting
down somewhere. But I will use my phone to do this in most other
situations; or if it is weird, or attention seeking to pull out a
notebook and a fountain pen.

When it comes to writing long form, I prefer my Macbook Air, then my
iPad 2 and my iPhone 4S last. I might write down some bullet points or
notes for something, if paper is my only option.

The thing is this, I don't use my preferred tools most of the time. I
just pick the tool that is the best fitting within arms reach. I am
writing this post on my Macbook Air. But I would have written it on my
iPhone or iPad if I my laptop wasn't already on my lap, when I decided
to write this thing.

One other very important point is that both a paper notebook, iPhone and
iPad is something that is fare more "focused" than using an laptop. This
is because well you can only do three things with a sheet of paper. You
can either stare at a blank page, write on it, or stare at a page full
of words. And when it comes to your iPhone or iPad, you can only work
with one app at a time.

I find this very helpful when I need to write something that I find very
hard.

Try to just pick the most convenient tool within arms reach the next
time you are going to write something. Don't get up, pick up your phone,
or iPad. You might get some interesting results.

I type faster on a hardware keyboard. But I write better first drafts on
everything except hardware keyboards. And I never have to stop to think
while writing on paper or on a touch screen. I do that all the time
while writing on a regular computer. The reason for this is that I use a
little longer write things down, and this makes it possible for my brain
to work on the next few sentences, while I'm still typing out the last
one.

Like Natalie Goldberg is writing about in Writing down the bones(not an
exact quote), the whole dynamic and how you write is very different
depending on what you are writing with and on. Typewriter, Computer,
paper -- it's all different.

Be a bit mindful, and don't let the lack of your preferred tool keep you
from writing. Because it is the writing part that is important. And
especially the writing part. Do yourself a favour, and just write. Fill
the pages, or make that
[Clackity
Noise](http://www.kungfugrippe.com/post/169873399/clackity-noise).

(#blog)
