---
title: "The new iPads revisited."
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
url: "/2013/11/15/The/28"
type: "post"
date: 2013-11-15T01:00:00+01:00
---

I have been listening to podcasts talking about the new iPad for a long
time now. And I finally went to my local Apple Authorised Retailer on
the way to the university this morning.

There is three things I want from a new iPad, if I'm going to get one:
-- It must be easier to thumb type -- A faster and up to date iOS
experience -- Retina screen.

It would also be nice to have an iPad that I could stick in my coat
pocket. This kind of excludes the iPad Air.

What I did when I was there was to play with the new iPhone's, and the
new iPad's. I won't get a new iPhone now, but I just wanted to see how
it was.

The weight and typing experience is two of the key points when it comes
to iPads for me. And that was the main thing I did. And I will get to
that in a moment.

I never manage to stand there more than a few moments, when I test
devices in stores. Because it's not how I work. It is the wrong height
for a standing desk. I wish they would have some kind of sofa or chair
where you could sit and test the products.

The keyboards in both orientations on both devices was amazing.
Seriously. Amazing. I was kind of set on getting the iPad mini 32GB with
WiFi in January, but I am torn.

What I did when I was there was to write 300 words in both orientations
on both devices.

I have kind of big hands, and it is possible for me to thumb type on the
iPad 2; is it usable or comfortable? No!

The amazing thing is that this is pretty comfortable on the iPad Air,
but not perfect. While this is perfect on the iPad mini, both versions
of it.

This was not a big surprise, really -- it wasn't.

The thing that really surprised me, was how easy it was to "touch" type
on the iPad mini when placed in a stand in landscape mode.

So, where does this leave me? I don't know really.

There is no clear choice this time. Both of the iPads are very light.
Both of the are good to type on. The Air is the best when it comes to
type on in in landscape, while the Mini is without doubt the best to
thumb type on. But, both of them are very good at both.

I think it will be the mini, but I don't know. And I have to do some
real testing when I can until I can afford to get one.

(#blog)
