---
title: "On Apple rumours."
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
url: "/2013/11/19/On/29"
type: "post"
date: 2013-11-19T01:00:00+01:00
---

First of all: I only read rumour sites when I know that it is about time
for Apple to release something. I don't care that much about all of the
crazy rumours. They are of zero interest to me. Do I care if Apple is
going to announce an iPhone or new Macbook tomorrow? No, I don't. I
don't need a new phone or laptop right now.

I don't mind the rumour sites. What they are doing is great. That's not
my problem with them.

My issue with the whole rumour game is sloppy journalism. You need to
find at least two different trusted sources before publishing it. If
your site is called "Macrumors" -- publish everything related to it.
But, if your site is called BusinessInsider and you publish something
like "Apple is about to launch pyramid shaped iPad" -- don't do it. And
please add "Rumour:" in the beginning of the title; or something
similar.

People may publish what ever they like; and I don't have a problem with
it. But, you need to be open and transparent in both the article and the
title regarding what it really is.

Don't make the reader think that some crazy hack of a rumour is a PR
message from Apple, or a tip from a trusted source.

It is not nice to do the "link bait" kind of posts. And I will not --
not ever click on any title that comes from a "link bait" style site, or
click on any article with that kind of title. I don't care who or what
you are. I just don't care.

Care about your craft. Do the right thing. You are nothing without your
readers. Do you want to be the next business insider?

I hope not.

(#blog)
