---
title: "Review Bodum Insulated Stainless-Steel Travel French Press Coffee and Tea Mug."
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
url: "/2013/12/26/Review/50"
type: "post"
date: 2013-12-26T01:00:00+01:00
---

I've used these Bodum combined french press and travel mug's a few times
in the past. And now I got one for christmas this year.

I think I have to explain why it is a bad idea to have a combined french
press and coffeemug. It is very important to pour the coffee from a
french press and over to a coffee-pot or cups, as soon as possible after
the coffee is brewed, to avvoid getting a overbrewed drink. Overbrewed
coffee just tastes terrible.

It is pretty much unavoidable to get overbrewed coffee in a combined cup
and french press.

When I looked at the cup, I found out that they included two different
lids. One with a french press-dingus on it, and one without.

This bodum cup is in a lot of ways two different things in one. It is a
usable french press, but in no way as good as their regular french press
pots. And it is a very good travel mug.

I think I'll continue using this mug. Without the french press part.

This is a very good mug, and I think everyone should take a look at it,
if they want something to keep their coffee hot for a very long time.
And it might also be something to look at if you need to make coffee in
while traveling, for example on a airplane, train or bus ride. But
something like an Aeropress would be a better option, if you need to
make coffee in your cabin or when hiking.

Anyway.

A good travel mug.


## Links: {#links}

-   [Bodum
    Insulated Stainless-Steel Travel French Press Coffee and Tea Mug](http://www.amazon.com/Bodum-Insulated-Stainless-Steel-0-45-Liter-15-Ounce/dp/B008TYX1DW/ref=sr%5F1%5F3?s=home-garden&ie=UTF8&qid=1388061530&sr=1-3&keywords=Bodum+Insulated+Stainless-Steel+Travel+French+Press+Coffee+and+Tea+Mug)

    <div class="HTML">
      <div></div>

    </p>

    </div>

-   [Aeropress](http://www.amazon.com/Aerobie-AeroPress-Coffee-Espresso-Maker/dp/B0047BIWSK/ref=sr%5F1%5F1?s=home-garden&ie=UTF8&qid=1388062765&sr=1-1&keywords=aeropress)

(#blog)
