---
title: "Day One sync"
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
type: "post"
date: 2013-12-12T01:00:00+01:00
---

Day One is a great journaling app for both iOS and OS X. You can store
both images and text there; it even supports markdown. I store pictures,
contents of my notebooks and random stuff I write.

iCloud sync used to work very well; and then it started to first not
sync at all, and then it synced fine on my Macs, but it wouldn't sync
everything, just 1/3 of the data to the iOS devices. And today was the
day where I pulled the plug and moved everything over to Dropbx.

I think I have reached a point, where I just store simple data like
Contacts, Calendars, and apps that just store documents. PDFPen, Pages
and Number work fine with iCloud. But it would not take me long to move
it all off there if that don't work anymore.

The problem with iCloud is that I can't, and the developers can't debug
or do anything at all with anything. It is just a black-box in the
middle. It is great when it works, and a fucking nightmare when it
don't.

One of the things I like about using Dropbox for apps like DayOne is
that I can make a zip file of the whole DayOne folder on Dropbox, and
just extract that into that folder and replace the file if something
should go wrong. You can't do that with iCloud, in any **supported** way.

The process of changing the sync-engine on something like Day One is not
trivial. Or that is not that acurate, the process of doing the change
could not have been made any easier on DayOne's side. But it can take a
long time to do the actualy syncing. The one to blame here is my
internet provider.

It also seems like the Dropbox sync is faster, and it will sync in the
background on iOS 7.

(#blog)
