---
title: "Working, without a office."
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
type: "post"
date: 2013-08-24T02:00:00+02:00
---

I really hope this is my final draft of this text. It all started as a
response to the whole "home working" thing; combined with me going back
to school and this being the first time since I was 18 where I don't
actually have a set place where I do the majority of my work.

There are a lot of reasons for having a dedicated place for doing all of
your work, and I do know that it makes you more productive in general;
but it is also a good idea to work from somewhere else a few times a
week.

One quick note before I move forward; I still have access to my
employers office, but I don't like to go there when I don't work for
them. It's just a bit combination between me mainly focusing on what I
should be doing when I am there and a lot of distractions when I am
there.

**Setup.** So everything I need to do 90% of my work can be backed into my
messenger back or a backpack within two minutes.

-   Pens + refills

-   Notebooks and Index cards

-   Macbook Air

-   Books; the ones I need, nothing else.

-   30pin USB cable

-   Macbook Air power-brick

-   Water bottle.

-   Camera

As you might expect, there are a lot of stuff missing from my bag. I
don't have my kindle, iPad or that much fancy stuff at all.

I can probably fit everything I would ever want to use in my backpack if
I wanted, but this makes it harder to find the stuff I need, and a lot
heavier to carry.

How often do I use my Kindle or my iPad when I am not either on my couch
at home or traveling? Almost never.

You might wonder what the logic behind not carrying an iPad, but brining
my DSLR with me; I take pictures almost every day. And to having to go
all the way home when I decide to go for a trip and taking some pictures
is more of a hassle than to just always having it in my bag.

Let's get back to my main point. You should be able to get started doing
something productive within a minute, if you are carrying your whole
"office setup" in a bag of some sort. That's the main reason for not
carrying everything you might need; you should rather just carry the
stuff you need in most situations.

(#blog)
