---
title: "Doubt."
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
type: "post"
date: 2013-11-04T01:00:00+01:00
---

This is hard. I want to quit.

These are all too regular thoughts when I am working with stuff that
either takes longer than usual or something that I'm just not that used
to work with. Like this insane writing project, I am doing on this site.

I have the choice. I could continue with it, and get everything to a
level where everything is a a little easier, or I could do the same as
one billion other people are doing. Write simple blog posts a few times
a day.

But, I don't want that. I want to do something different. And I have
been working on that for about a month now. Maybe a little longer. I
think it will be great, if I give it some time.

It is not easy to do something different these days. Most people do the
easy stuff. I don't think what Shawn Blanc, John Gruber or The Loop is
doing is easy. All of them have been doing this for a very long time.
They are all doing something different, from each other, and the rest of
the internet.

There is at least 1000 terrible and boring link list blogs for every
good one. And you have to be a really awesome writer to be able to make
it in that space today.

You have to do something different. You have to do something heard.

If you want to be something. Someone that just isn't a part of all the
blogs and sites out there that just is in the pile of all of the other
unknown sites and blogs.

I'm pretty sure every single person out there, that is creating
something has doubt. I know that both Dan Benjamin and Merlin Mann have
been talking about this on Back To Work.

Stick to it, and get it out there.

(#blog)
