---
title: "Create the site you would pay for."
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
url: "/2014/02/06/Create/73"
type: "post"
date: 2014-02-06T01:00:00+01:00
---

Patrick Rhone just wrote a great
[post](http://patrickrhone.com/2014/02/05/some-thoughts-about-writing/)
called "Some Thoughts About Writing". Patrick is my favourite internet
writer, and you should go and get all of his books, and subscribe to at
least [Minimal Mac](http://minimalmac.com) and
[Patrick Rhone](http://patrickrhone.com/).

I'm not going to comment too much on what he is writing there, and you
should go and read it before you move on.

Have you read it? Good!. Let's get started.

I don't have a direct quote, or link for this, but I often used to hear
that John Gruber of [Daring Fireball](http://daringfireball.net)
defined the perfect Daring Fireball reader as himself. That might sound
cocky or kind of ego-centric. But, I would strongly disagree with that.

One of the things I've always been working against on this site, is to
write the kind of content I would like to read. One of the others are to
try to replicate my inner Internal monologue, in a way that makes sense
to other people. My perfect reader is me. Your perfect reader should be
**you**.

You can't do wrong if you write content that you are proud of, and that
is something that you would also enjoy. I have never been into thinking
about "wonder if someone likes this" or "this will probably attract a
lot of clicks". I don't care -- and have never cared about that. I write
for me, the stuff I need to figure out and get out there -- and I write
the kind of content I would enjoy.

Go out there, and create the kind of site you would pay for.

(#blog)
