---
title: "My new iPhone."
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
url: "/2014/05/22/My/118"
type: "post"
date: 2014-05-22T02:00:00+02:00
---

## What model, and why? {#what-model-and-why}

I have been thinking about updating my old black iPhone 4S(32GB) for a
while now. And today was the day when I finally went down to do it. I
went with the 32GB, space grey 5S.

The reason I go for the 32GB model is that there are a few times a year
when I need that kind of space. I know that I would constantly hit the
limit if I went for the 16GB. Remind me, why haven't Apple killed the
16GB models?

So, why the 5S and not the 5C. There are four reasons here. I prefer the
look of the 5S. I prefer the feel of it. And the other two are the M7
chip and a better camera. Everybody that know me, also know that I don't
take any serious photos with my phone. But it's nice to have a little
bit better pictures from my phone.

I'm going to have this phone for 2-3 year, like I've had my current one.
And I think that's a good enough reason to spend enough on it to make it
a as good as possible device for those years.


## Why I upgraded {#why-i-upgraded}

My current policy for everything I own is that I don't buy anything new
before it's broken, or is a major hassle. And my 4S was a hassle. The
battery time wasn't what it used to be, and it wasn't as fast as it used
to be.

The short answer, I wanted to have a phone again that lasted more or
less the whole day, that also was a joy to use. My 4S wasn't.


## Why now? {#why-now}

This might sound like a odd time for some of my follow geeks to buy a
new phone. But I think it's the perfect time.

First of all, I don't need to get it on day one. I prefer to get it
after Apple fixes any "new hardware"-related bugs. The best thing to get
it now, is that I could get the phone from the store down on the corner,
without ordering it in advance.

I could have waited for the new device -- probably september or october.
And then waiting for it to launch in Europe. And limited supplies etc.
That would mean more like November. And my 4S and my (relative) sanity
wouldn't survive until November.


## What I think about it? {#what-i-think-about-it}

I think the 5S is a great upgrade. It's a great phone, and I don't
regret buying it. The first thing I noticed was how light it is, I still
prefer the weight of the 4S; but the 5S isn't bad.

While the size they introduced with the 5, felt right, from the
beginning. I have never liked the larger smart phones. But this isn't a
large phone. Now my old 4S just looks tall, chubby and weird.

I don't complain, but it will be a major pain in the ass to replace all
my old pin connector cables with the new ones. The new connector is
without doubt much better; and user friendly. But I still hate to
replace cables.

The one thing about it that I don't like is the new location of the
headphone jack. I liked to have it on the top; and not it's on the
bottom. I get why they are doing it. But that is something that will
take some time to get used to.


## What about accessories or cases? {#what-about-accessories-or-cases}

No. I don't buy that much accessories for my phone. And I don't use any
cases.

I did play around with a few of them on my old 4S, when I got it. But I
just ended up not using them for a long time.

The reasons are simple, I want to get it out of my pocket -- fast. And
most cases are slowing down that process. And most cases don't work for
me when I'm doing some real writing on my phone. Sometime I do almost
every day.

By the way. I was thinking about getting a BookBook from TwelveSouth,
but I decided not to, of the exact same reasons.


## My process of setting up a new phone. {#my-process-of-setting-up-a-new-phone.}

I do the same dance every time I get a new iOS device; or when a new
major release of iOS is out.

I start from scratch. Move out all my files and content, before I
restore it.

Then I set up, to get the "new user" experience.

The first thing I do after that is to download all the apps I need. And
also a lot of the apps that I used to use, or feel like I haven't given
a real chance in a while. And then I just spend a few hours settings
stuff up and playing with apps.

And then I just delete all the stuff I don't need or want, and often end
up with more or less what I had, with a few replacements.

This time I replaced Instacast with Castro.


## Conclusion {#conclusion}

I'm happy with my new phone. It seems like the perfect upgrade cycle to
switch phone every 2-3 years. I don't think it's worth it do to it every
year. It's amazing to see the new hardware stuff, like the M7 & the
camera. And how fast everything is. But the most amazing thing is to be
able to use all the apps designed for the iPhone 5 screen size as they
intended them.

(#blog)
