---
title: "TaskPaper"
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
url: "/2014/02/12/TaskPaper/75"
type: "post"
date: 2014-02-12T01:00:00+01:00
---

I have been writing a lot about task paper lately, and I don't think
there will be many more articles about it in a while. It will be this
one, and I have another planned. One of the things I find very
interesting about tags in TaskPaper, is that they can be both what we
usually look at as "tags", but also meta-data.

Let me explain. You can filter out everything with the tag @done, this
will result in everything with the tag @done. But, tags can also have
some data associated to it. Let's take this on as an example:
@done(2014-01-01). This is a tag with the content 2014-01-01; this is
all the stuff I completed on the first of january 2014. The filter
"@done" will display everything with the tag @done. While the filter
‘@done = “2014-01-01″‘, let you filter out everything with a certain
tag, that also have an exact value associated to it.

You can also do more advanced searches like <,
data-preserve-html-node=”true”> etc. And combine filter together with
"and", "or" and not statements; you also filter on projects. This query
language, with a very powerful tag-syntax makes TaskPaper insanely
powerful. I would love to be able to search searches I often use, either
in a list, or be able to add them as buttons to the toolbar.
TextExpander is a brilliant companion, for the time being, since we
don't have these possibilities.

So, let's move on to my main point. The tagging system in TaskPaper is
more like a data for associating meta-data to tasks, projects and note,
than a regular tagging system. But, it's way more powerful than most
meta-data fields in GTD systems. And it is way more efficient to work
with. The important note here, is to always stride against something
that isn't more complicated than you actually need. The other important
thing is to standardise everything, pick one tag for one purpose, and
don't mix singular and plural names.

It's a nightmare if you have more than one tag, for the same purpose.
Decide! Think about these things, and you life will be much easier.

(#blog)
