---
title: "TaskPaper"
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
url: "/2014/01/23/TaskPaper/68"
type: "post"
date: 2014-01-23T01:00:00+01:00
---

The last, and first time I wrote about TaskPaper, was only a few hours
after I installed it. You can read about that
[here](http://www.hjertnes.me/blog/-my-new-gtd-system-taskpaper).
Following that post, I talked a bit with
[Mike Vardy](https://twitter.com/mikevardy) on Twitter. Which ended in
me saying that I was going to talk a bit more in depth about TaskPaper,
after I've been using it for a while.

This post goes into depth on a few different topics, mainly TaskPaper,
how I use it, some considerations I had to take before going for it, and
also my GTD system in general and some other GTD apps I've used in past.

I started writing this post after using TaskPaper for a month, and then
continued to writing it, and it was published after I had used TaskPaper
for a full month.


## My GTD app history {#my-gtd-app-history}

I might write an article about all of the different GTD and todo related
apps and services I have used at some point. But this is about the three
major ones I have used during the last six years. And a few notes on two
that I have tried to use as my main GTD system.


### Reminders and that Gmail thing. {#reminders-and-that-gmail-thing.}

I use Reminders now, but only for the fraction of my tasks that either
are recurring, or require a due date. The rest are going into TaskPaper.
I have tried to use both Reminders and Googles built-in Task manager in
Gmail a few times. And I think they are both pretty decent. I would love
to be able to get away with using Reminders, but I can't. They are just
to simple. The problem with them is that they are not designed to handle
the amount of tasks and project that I would need them to handle.


### Remember the Milk {#remember-the-milk}

Remember the Milks is a great Web-based GTD app, with apps for iPhone,
iPad, android etc. I used it for a total of two years, on two different
situations. RTM is great. But it has it's limits.

You might ask, why should I use RTM when I have Reminders? For one, I
think RTM is designed to handle the amount of tasks and projects you
would fine in the typical user that is between the simple needs of
Reminders and the advanced need in OmniFocus or Things. But. It is also
great to have as a platform independent solution. There have been times
when I've had an iPad, Mac and one of those Android things.


### Things {#things}

Things from Culture Code is one of the two power user GTD system for OS
X and iOS, and I used it for a total of two years. It was great. Like I
said with RTM, Things is not as advanced as OmniFocus, and a lot
simpler. I think they attend to two different user groups. I think a lot
read Getting Things Done, then they decide that Reminders isn't enough.
And then they go to Things. Let's face it. Things is a lot easier to get
started with, than what you will find in OmniFocus. But I also think a
lot of people move on to OmniFocus from things, if or when they grow out
of it.


### OmniFocus {#omnifocus}

OmniFocus is kind of the goto GTD app for all of us crazy productivity
nerds that belong to the church of David Allen's
["Getting
Things Done"](http://www.amazon.com/Getting-Things-Done-Stress-Free-Productivity-ebook/dp/B000WH7PKY/ref=sr%5F1%5F1?ie=UTF8). I love the book, and I still love OmniFocus. I also used
this app for two years straight. This app managed to get my through one
full time job with an insane amount of tasks to complete, a lot of
private projects, some studying on the side, and some times some part
time development gigs.

I didn't grew out of OmniFocus per say, but what it is and was is not
the kind of GTD system that is the right thing for me right now. I don't
need a lot of due dates, start dates and stuff like that. I need an easy
way to write down a lot of tasks in a very short time. I need some basic
ways to organise them. In shallow and deep structures. I need some basic
tagging, and most important of all, a simple way to combine Tasks and
Notes. Both from a getting them in there perspective, and from a reading
them perspective.

What I needed was something like a notebook, but digital. And what I
found was TaskPaper.


## Why plain text and "open containers" matter. {#why-plain-text-and-open-containers-matter.}

I have been working very hard to limit my tools, and to refactor what
tools I use and to try go get by with less. I used to have a lot of text
editors; now I don't.

One of my goals for 2014 is to move back to using my nvALT plain text
file database as the storage for my tasks, notes and everything else
that I am working on. And implementing a good GTD system in something
like TaskPaper was a very important part of this.

The reason I like to use formats like TaskPaper and Markdown which is
just text, in an open container, like Dropbox is that I can use any tool
I want to work with them. For example, I can use Notesy to edit both my
notes, write on a new blog post or to work with my TaskPaper document.


## TaskPaper vs Todo.txt {#taskpaper-vs-todo.txt}

I decided to go plain text with my GTD system. But which should I pick?
There was two very popular options out there. I think there are more,
but these two was the one I've heard about. And they are quite
different.

Todo.txt is different from TaskPaper on a few different things. For one,
it has a lot more functionality that TaskPaper, and it seems like it is
designed a lot more from the "easy to parse for the
developer"-perspective. One of the things I love about TaskPaper's
format, is how simple it is. And how easy it is to work with it, and how
fast I learnt it.


### The format rather than the apps {#the-format-rather-than-the-apps}

After realising that TaskPaper was a lot like my go to markup language,
markdown, I also realised another thing Im not just picking a few apps
for managing my tasks here. Those does not really matter in a plain text
world, what I am going is to pick a format.

And I picked the format with the fewest features, and the format that
was the easiest for me -- as a human to both read and write. I picked
TaskPaper.


## The OS X app. {#the-os-x-app.}

Let's move on to the OS X application, this is where you find the
TaskPaper experience at it's finest. It's a text editor, that includes
different markup depending on what you are typing. A project will have
bolder and larger type, and notes are highlighted with grey text. While
completed tasks get a strikethrough formatting.

The app makes it very easy to work with TaskPaper, it treats the
document as a text file. This means that you can just do everything with
your keyboard, if this is your thing. But there is also buttons and
menus for creating tasks, notes, and projects, if this is your thing.
There are also menus for focusing on certain tags or projects.

One of my favourite features in the app is that you have a search field
that let's you create rather complex queries. The query "@next and not
@done" would show all of my tasks with the tag "next" that isn't
complete. This is a search I use all of the time on the mac to keep
track of everything that is "up next".

[Text Expander][4] is a great companion app here.

To sum things up, Task Paper for OS X is a great app with all of the
power any power user want to have. But the app is designed in a way that
makes is very easy to get started.


## The iOS app {#the-ios-app}

The iOS app was unfortunately removed from the store. I won't get in to
details about here. But you read about why Hog Bay Software decided to
go so
[here](http://blog.hogbaysoftware.com/post/72442052582/winter-2014-newsletter).
The app have been open sourced, and I think someone might pick it up,
and start doing something interesting with it.

The iOS and OS X apps for TaskPaper is kind of different. The OS X app
is a text editor with some TaskPaper specific features, and the iOS apps
is more like a regular GTD "list" app. And I also think the iPad and
iPhone versions have their own respective strengths and weaknesses.

I think the iPhone version is a very good app to mark items as
completed, and to just look up items within a tag or project. And the
iPad version on the other hand is much better at adding new items, due
to it having an extended keyboard, with some task paper specific buttons
on the top.

One note regarding the iOS apps is that they slowed down, when I tried
to work with some large TaskPaper files in them(larger than 50K).


## Sync {#sync}

Dropbox is the go to syncing mechanism for TaskPaper, and it's fast and
works more or less like you would expect it to. Just one heads up, try
to always save and close the document if you plan do open it in iOS.

The reason for this is that the OS X version is not as good as I want it
to when I comes to saving when it comes to autosaving and loading
changes from the local file in the background. This is probably
something I expect the developer to fix in the coming versions of the OS
X app, now that he is focusing only on OS X apps.


## Third party apps {#third-party-apps}

One of the great things about TaskPaper + Dropbox sync is that you can
use anything capable of editing text. Let's get into the great third
party apps I use to work with TaskPaper, on both OS X and iOS.


### nvALT {#nvalt}

nvALT, is one of my favourite OS X apps, and it is one of the five apps
that would be enough to do all of my work. To sum it up, nvALT is a note
taking application that have great support for markdown, have full text
search and stores all of the notes in plain text files. I store
everything from my notes, blog posts to my "bookmarks" in it.

nvALT is not as great as TaskPaper when it comes to working with your
TaskPaper files, but I often use it for it anyway. The reason for this
is that I often need to get down a few task, while working on something
else.


### Notesy {#notesy}

Notesy is my iOS counterpart to nvALT, and it have been my go to notes
application on iOS since I started using it. It's fast, reliable and it
is the only application that can handle any amount of notes I have sent
it's way.

Here is the thing. Some of my notes is two words, while other of them is
a 10 000+ word notes file containing all of the notes I have taken from
an entire text book. And I have a lot of them. Notesy is the only app
that never crashes on my. One of the other great features in Notesy is
that it have full text search, like nvALT and it let's you customise
large parts of the application.


### Editorial {#editorial}

Notesy is often my only writing and notes application on iPhone, but I
also use Editorial on the iPad. Editorial is this crazy thing that let's
you build workflows to automate things, with both built-in functions,
and with Python(!!) -- it's awesome.

The other great thing about Editorial, is that is seems like it was
built for both online writers and people like me, that need to switch to
a browser to do some quick research ALL THE TIME. I use it to find
links, and I use it to make sure that I really understand what I am
writing, while doing notes for my studies.

It's a great app, and I have written hundreds of thousands of words in
that thing.

Here is a great blog [post](http://dfay.fastmail.fm/et/) about using
Editorial with TaskPaper.


### Drafts {#drafts}

Drafts is another of these great and innovative iOS applications. The
basic concept is that you have a simple text editor that always starts
up with an empty text file. Then you can either send it on to other
applications with a lot of built in integrations, or write your own to
apps with a url-scheme.

The way I use this is to "prepend" text to my default TaskPaper file(add
it to the beginning).


## The difference between reoccurring tasks and Habits. {#the-difference-between-reoccurring-tasks-and-habits.}

I rediscovered one of my favourite apps from the iOS version 6 period,
while writing this post. And immediately changed parts of my setup and
workflow. Habit List is a app designed to handle tasks regarding to
habits. Let's take a look at the differences between using Habit List
and recurring tasks in for example Reminders.

Let's say, I want to get into working out. This is one of the things you
would want to use Habit List for. The reasons for this is that you might
not want to do it on particular dates, but rather let's say three times
a week. And you would also want to keep track of when and how often you
actually did it.

This is all parts of the functionality that Habit List provides.

And then you have other kinds of tasks like "Adding events for all of my
lectures in the coming week", is not something I want or need to have in
Reminders. For one, I don't care to see the stats, and it is just
something I need to do -- not just each week, but every sunday.

In other words, the difference lies in stuff you want to have statistics
on, and to have both functionality that is made for one thing --
creating habits.


## My workflow {#my-workflow}

Now, finally. This is how I do things myself.


### Pen & Paper. {#pen-paper.}

I often use Pen & Paper, and my go to tools for this is large Moleskine
notebooks, pocked sized FieldNotes and my beloved Retro 51 pen. I
journal, and do quick capture stuff in the Field Notes when this is the
fastest and or the most fitting tool.

While I use Moleskine's when I need to write notes on paper, or need to
plan out larger projects.

Later I bring all of the stuff I write on paper into either nvALT if it
is notes, TaskPaper if its tasks and Day One if it is journaling.


### TaskPaper {#taskpaper}

My current TaskPaper setup consists of three different .taskpaper files:
GTD, Wishlist and Archive. Wishlist is just a collection of different
items I want, but don't need or have the money to buy right now. I could
store it in the main GTD file, but I prefer to have them separated. It
makes it a lot easier to get overview of things.

Archive is just a file where I move completed items from the GTD file,
this is to make the file load and sync faster. But also to avoid having
hundreds, if not thousands of completed items and projects at the bottom
of my file.

GTD is the main file I am working on at any given moment. I use a lot of
projects, and I use a few very simple tags. -- nnn -- I add this tag to
any item that I intend to work on "next". It's pretty close to how I
have used flagging in various other GTD systems. I find it useful to
have an easy way to look up what I should tackle after what I was doing.
-- [@today](<https://micro.blog/today>) -- This is more like a hard
deadline. This is a indicator that I **need** to do this today. --
[@monday](<https://micro.blog/monday>) -- @sunday. -- I don't use these a
lot. But I do so sometimes. I introduced a set of tags for each day, to
have something similar to the forecast view in OmniFocus, it's just a
simple scheduling paradigm, the few times I need it.

This is the generalised tags that is crucial to my workflow in
TaskPaper, I also use some vert specific ones. I'm not going into them
here.


### OS X {#os-x}

My GTD workflow in OS X involves three different apps. I use to
Reminders to recurring tasks, and stuff with a due date. And the rest
ends up in a .taskpaper file. My main app for this is TaskPaper. I might
use some other TextEditor, but I rarely do so.

Both OS X's nature, and the maturity of the TaskPaper for OS X makes
this part of my workflow kind of boring.


### iOS {#ios}

iOS is bit more complex. I always use Drafts on both my iPhone and iPad
to quick capture ideas and tasks, and even projects I need to plan. The
TaskPaper app is often used to look up certain tags or projects, and it
is also my preferred app on OS X to mark tasks and projects as
completed.

Notesy on the iPhone and Editorial on iPad is however my go to apps for
writing down larger portions of tasks, and for planning projects. The
reason for this is that I find it a lot easier and more efficient to do
this in a text editor environment.

In other words: drafts for quick capture, the TaskPaper app for viewing
and searching and Notesy or Editorial for editing. They are all great in
their own unique and awesome way.

**Reminders & Habit List**. Both of these apps are also a crucial part of
my workflow. The stuff I track with Reminders is planning the coming
week(adding events to my calendar), processing my paper notebooks, and
reviewing my tasks. While I have stuff like working out three times a
week, journaling every day, taking a daily selfie and playing guitar
every day in Habit List. The divide between the two is like I based on
if I want to have statistics on how often I actually do it, and if I
need a loose scheduling.

Reminders works on certain days and times, while Habit List allows me to
set "every 2-3 days" or "3 times a week", something that is awesome for
certain tasks.


## Conclusion. {#conclusion.}

This setup is all in all very different from what it used to be, just a
few weeks ago. I used to have everything in one app, OmniFocus. But I
feel that this app is a lot more future proof, than it used to be. I'm a
lot more mindful about what kind of task it is, and if every actually
needs a due date.

You might say that this system is a bit more fiddly, and it is, but I
know that the majority of my tasks will work on any computer I am going
to use for the coming 25 years. That is not something I can say about my
old Things or OmniFocus databases.


## Links. {#links.}

-   [nvALT](http://brettterpstra.com/projects/nvalt/)

    <div class="HTML">
      <div></div>

    </p>

    </div>

-   [TaskPaper](http://www.hogbaysoftware.com/products/taskpaper)

-   [Notesy](http://notesy-app.com)

-   [Editorial](http://omz-software.com/editorial/)

-   [Habit List](http://habitlist.com)

-   [Things](http://culturedcode.com/things/)

-   [OmniFocus](https://www.omnigroup.com/omnifocus)

-   [Drafts](http://agiletortoise.com/drafts/)

-   [RTM](http://www.rememberthemilk.com)

    (#blog)
