---
title: "Your site – your identity."
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
type: "post"
date: 2014-03-27T01:00:00+01:00
---

I made a decision a few years ago, about how I'm going to host and
deliver what I create. And that place is this site.

There are a lot of places you could publish your content. You have
Tumblr, WordPress.com and Squarespace for writing. You have
Soundcloud(and others) for podcasting. You have Vimeo and Youtube for
video's. And you have Flickr, 500px, Instagram etc for photos.

I was a long time Squarespace user, and wordpress for a long time before
that, Tumblr for a short time and now WordPress again. I'd like to
explain why I don't publish much[^1] on anything except for my personal
site and Twitter.

Twitter is the social network I like, it's also the social network I
get. Everything is simple. You get 140 characters. Everyone that follows
you get it. And that's it. While Facebook is complex and weird.

I prefer using platforms that is design to be -- just websites and
blogs. Tumblr isn't a blogging platform. It's more like a combination of
Twitter and a blog. Which is great for some people; it's not what I
want.

Why host your own website? There are many reasons. If you use
Squarespace and decide you need or want something different -- then you
can make the switch in a few hours, if you have a design ready. And you
have the same options for WordPress.

It's easier to publish to Tumblr(for writing) or 500px(for pictures)
than it is to publish to WordPress. But you control the experience. And
I think it's a better chance for WordPress and Squarespace being here in
10 years, than some startup.

I think having a real website is the best way to create something that
stays around. Be the person known for your website. Don't be they person
that created a Instagram profile that was popular for a few months.

Get out there, and create what you want to create.

[0^]: I do write from time to time on other sites, like for example
[UiBeta](http://beta.uib.no)

(#blog)
