---
title: "Design"
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
type: "post"
date: 2014-03-28T01:00:00+01:00
---

Designing websites is hard. The Squarespace days was simple. I picked a
template, modified them until they was more or less what I wanted, and
then I moved on.

I never went far enough with the platform to develop anything from
scratch.

WordPress, and most other platforms[0] requires more. There are a few
options -- Pay a designer to do it for you -- Start from scratch -- Buy
a good commercial template -- Find one of the hundreds of thousands of
terrible free ones -- Find one of the few good free templates.

Now you need to decide if you want to change it or
not[1](http://lessmade.com/themes/less/). I have a template that I
designed from scratch, it's not finished. And I doubt it will ever be.
The current design of Hjertnes.me used to be
[Less](http://lessmade.com/themes/less/). But, I've modified it quite
a lot.

I also use [BigFoot.js](http://www.bigfootjs.com) to get "Marco-style"
footnotes.

In the end the design question -- at least for me -- is about should I
spend a lot of time right now designing something from scratch. Or
should I start with something I could accept, and over time shape it
into the design I wanted all along?

I always end up going with the latter. First of all, I don't have the
time to move a design from the easy "usable" state to "perfect". And I
kind of like the process of finding the one thing about my design that I
hate -- and fixing it. And doing that over and over and over again until
the design is good.

You just need to get a design, that you are proud of. My personal taste
is simple, beautiful designs, that shows off the content. While other
people like more "in your face" designs[2](http://www.bigfootjs.com).

But the thing you have to do in the end, is to find what kind of design
-- what kind of message you want to send to your readers. My site isn't
perfect, and I don't think anyone expects that.

Your site should look like it is something someone designed during the
last two years. And it need to look professional[3].

Go out there and get a great design.&nbsp;[^0]: Tumblr is one of the few
exceptions&nbsp;[^1]: If you picked up a paid or free template on the net.
[^2]: They are probably compensating for something...&nbsp;[^3]: Whatever
that means these days. Nothing. What I mean by it is to have something
you can show your boss, your board, your professor or your mom.

(#blog)
