---
title: "Redesign"
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
type: "post"
date: 2014-12-18T01:00:00+01:00
---

My old design have finally been put to sleep, where it belongs. I was
never happy about it. The old one was just ment to do one thing, work
until I had the time to implement something better. And it's finally
here.

The process was simple. I started sketching down some ideas last month.
And then I moved on to writing a few words about what I wanted.

This design is different from what I have done in the past. I spent a
long time figuring out what I wanted. But I also wanted to try something
different.

I wanted something that did as much as possible, with as little as
possible. The result is a design that just rely on a basic structure and
type.

This is what I have done

1.  I restructured the post style, to make it work better with linked
    post. And I implemented symbols to show that something is a linked
    post(the arrow) and a true permalink symbol ∞.

2.  Then I moved the menu to where I prefer it to be.

3.  My next step was to make sure the basic structure, and that
    everything I needed, and nothing more, was in the template.

4.  I set up the margins, to make sure things looked right. This was one
    of the major issues with my old design. It was too hard to see if
    something was a blog-post title, or just a header in the post itself.

    <div class="HTML">
      <div></div>

    </p>

    </div>

5.  My last step, and the largest one was to set the type. I wanted both
    the structure and the text to look just right. And I think I have it.

(#blog)
