---
title: "Is it a waste of money to go to a university"
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
url: "/2014/01/28/Is/71"
type: "post"
date: 2014-01-28T01:00:00+01:00
---

This is kind of a response to
[Episode 10, of Pragmatic](http://www.fiatlux.fm/pragmatic/10), an
awesome show that you should listen to. But also some thoughts I have
regarding Universities, and higher education in general.

One important note before we move on. I live in Norway. If you go to a
public University here(which is the best ones, in many, if not most
cases) you don't pay much money in intuition. I paid less than $100.

I think there are people that should go to University, and I think there
are people that shouldn't.

This is a very difficult question, and I think there is something to
both sides of the discussion. I think most self thought developers and
designers don't need to take a Bachelor. But, they should consider doing
it.

I don't take a degree in computer science, I'm working on a degree in
History, with a minor in Philosophy. I think the general idea is the
same.

You shouldn't take an academic education if you just want to learn
enough about something to go out there and do some kind of job. But
there is something to the act of going to a university, and try to soak
up as much information and knowledge as you can.

I can now spend either three or five years reading in depth about
History, and philosophers, and discuss it with people that are doing the
exact same thing. And you have more or less the same thing in a computer
science department, they are playing around with projects and
technologies that you wouldn't get to work with in most development
jobs.

Don't waste your time in a University if your goal is to write iOS apps;
go to [Big Nerd Ranch](http://www.bignerdranch.com) and download their
iOS development book.

/To be completely honest: most of the really good developers I have met,
did not take a computer science degree, they either took something
completely different, or didn't go a University./

There is a big difference between the students you find in the computer
science department, and the kind of people you find at the humanities
department. Most of the people that complete something in my department
are doing it because they are genuinely really interesting in their
subject.

While I find this to a lesser degree in computer science departments;
there are a lot of people that believe that they need that kind of
education to work as a developer. It's like taking a PhD in Physics to
play basketball.

So, is going to a university a waste of money? It is a waste of money if
you just want to learn a certain skill. But it is a great experience if
you want to learn as much as possible about your area of interest, have
good discussions and to learn how the academic and research really
works.

A Bachelor or Master degree should be both a education and cultivation.

(#blog)
