---
title: "Drafts for iOS is awesome."
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
url: "/2014/06/11/Drafts/126"
type: "post"
date: 2014-06-11T02:00:00+02:00
---

Okay. So I love Drafts. I have been using it since the first version
came out. Well, not all time time, but I've had it installed.

And then I got into it again when I got a iPhone 5S. There are a number
of reasons for getting into it again. First of all, a lot of my workflow
have been refocused around plain text again.

Here is the thing, you should get it. I love the fact that I have one
place where I start 90% of everything I type into my iPhone. It might be
a blog post, it might be a tweet or DayOne entry, or a text to my
girlfriend. I even use it to write stuff I need to send to my YNAB
"temp-file". I'll get into that in a moment.

The reason I left Draft, or left it in a state where I didn't use it, is
the fact that it became hard to manage all of my actions. This was
solved when the developer re-designed the whole interface into tabs with
actions.

So, I have all the stuff I use every day in tab "I", and the stuff I use
most days on tab "II" and the rest spread accross "III" and "IIII".

So, I have a YNAB temp file. This is the place where I quickly add all
of the stuff I spend money on. It's just a text file with lines like
"Food $10" or "Beer $5" etc. And then I go through it once a week and
add it to YNAB; my budgeting app of choice.

Anyways. Draft is an awesome app if you just want a single place to
start everything before moving on to the place they belong. You can even
make your own actions.


## Links {#links}

-   [Drafts](http://agiletortoise.com/drafts/)

    <div class="HTML">
      <div></div>

    </p>

    </div>

-   [YNAB](https://www.youneedabudget.com)

-   [DayOne](http://dayoneapp.com)

(#blog)
