---
title: "WordPress workflows in 2014."
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
url: "/2014/03/09/WordPress/81"
type: "post"
date: 2014-03-09T01:00:00+01:00
---

I have to say it, the apps available in 2014, is different from how it
used to be in 2011; at least on iOS. While the available apps for OS X
is more or less what it used to be. With one interesting
exception(Byword).

One of the reasons I moved away from Squarespace, was the limited
approach to publishing content. I get why they were doing it, it's not
what I need or want. And the WordPress I see today, is different from
what I left in 2011. First of all, the admin panel looks better than I
have ever seen it before, and the apps available on iOS is way better.

There are not a lot of good apps for publishing content to WordPress on
any of the platforms. There are at least two good ones for each
platform, and another okay one for iOS. And you have a lot of apps that
are either just useless, or not what I want from an blogging app.


## MarsEdit {#marsedit}

MarsEdit is and have "always" been the premium, and go to blogging app
for OS X. It does more or less what you would expect it to do. The
markdown support is kind of weird, but it works. I would love to see
some kind of more "native feeling" markdown support. And maybe the
ability to convert HTML to markdown, when editing pages or old
blog-posts.

I think MarsEdit is the best option for
**most**[1](http://www.macstories.net/stories/editorial-for-ipad-review)
OS X users, and it works with more or less any blogging platform that
have an open API.


## Byword {#byword}

Byword 2.0 came with an In-App-Purchase that enabled Publishing
features. This feature let's you send something from Byword to:
WordPress, Tumblr, Evernote and others.

This is in many ways the perfect feature for something like Byword. And
it was also unexpected when they released it. It's great to see great
apps going in a different direction. There are enough almost identical
writing apps out there.

The power you find in Byword, both on iOS and OS X is more or less the
same as MarsEdit; without the WYSIWYG capabilities of course. Byword
might be the perfect blogging app for all the markdown geeks out there

I need to say this. Byword is a great tool for writing new blog
posts[^2]. While MarsEdit also let's you edit, delete and manage your
whole blog; including static pages.

In other words, Byword is in no way a MarsEdit replacement.


## Poster {#poster}

I won't mention the official WordPress app much in this article. The
main reason for this, is that I don't think it is any
good[3](http://bywordapp.com).

There is a good WordPress client called Poster. It is unfortunately not
for sale anymore. Automatic[4](http://www.tomwitkin.com/projects/)
acquired it. The reason I mention this is that Poster is the best
blogging app for iOS that I have seen to this date. Poster is a power
user tool. I think most Poster users would love to see it's power and
simplicity[^5] find it's way into the official app, at some point.


## Editorial {#editorial}

Editorial is one of the most powerful apps available; yes, it is more
powerful than most text editors on any platform. To put it in simple
terms -- Editorial is an editor for iPad, with a great built in browser,
and support for something they call workflows.

Workflows consists of easy to use steps, and you can do more advanced
stuff with Python.

Editorial can be what you want it to be. And publishing content to
WordPress is just one of many. Check out
[this](http://www.macstories.net/stories/editorial-for-ipad-review)
great article over at MacStories for more information about it. Or buy
their Editor in Chief's
[iBook](https://itunes.apple.com/us/book/writing-on-ipad-text-automation/id697865620?mt=11&ign-mpt=uo=4)
about it.


## Conclusion {#conclusion}

There are a lot of great tools out there for blogging both on iOS and OS
X. I think Byword will be my go to tool for writing blog-posts. At least
most of the time. While apps like MarsEdit and Poster will be my go to
apps for editing, fixing typos and stuff like that.

I'm not the biggest Editorial user in the word. It's a great tool, and I
always use it on my iPad when I work on something that requires me to do
a lot of browsing. And I think the official app is the best one out
there for those who don't own a copy of Poster. The official app don't
have any markdown support[6](http://omz-software.com/editorial/). You
can always copy the HTML from Byword.


## Links {#links}

-   [Byword](http://bywordapp.com)

-   [Poster](http://www.tomwitkin.com/projects/)

-   [MarsEdit](http://www.red-sweater.com/marsedit/)

-   [Editorial](http://omz-software.com/editorial/)

(#blog)
