---
title: "The App Store and Netflix is great; but the search sucks."
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
url: "/2014/07/08/The/141"
type: "post"
date: 2014-07-08T02:00:00+02:00
---

My mother have never owned any computer except for her iPad and iPhone.
And she never downloads anything, except for the apps that I have
installed on them.

She got a new TV last year. And my step father was browsing netflix on
it, during christmas, looking for something all of us could watch. And I
realised the major problem with Netflix for my parents generation; in
particular the part of them that aren't computer savvy.

We couldn't find anything. All of us wanted to watch. I would just pick
some random movie, and watch ten minutes, to figure out if I wanted to
watch more of it, and do that until I found something interesting.

What I wish Netflix had is some IMDB integration, combined with some
Pandora like features.

Here is what I want. Let's say my mother likes Titanic. You search or
pick that movie in Netflix, they look at meta-data about that movie, and
you get a list of similar movies in the netflix catalogue, sorted by
rating.

The problem with both the app store and netflix for non-geeks or
non-computer savvy people is that there are no good way to find what you
want.

On the app store side, I want some way for developers to check off some
standard features that the app has. Like for example: I want a markdown
editor, with built-in browser that syncs with Dropbox.

It would be really hard for me to find that with a search in the app
store.

(#blog)
