---
title: "Reflections after the WWDC14 Keynote."
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
type: "post"
date: 2014-06-04T02:00:00+02:00
---

I never watch the keynote live, or the same night. And I didn't this
year either.

The thing I always do is to listen to a few podcasts, read a few
blogposts about it. And then I watch the damn thing the day after.

This will be an amazing fall -- if Apple manages to pull all of this
off. There are however a few of the new things that I'm really excited
about.


## OS X Design refresh. {#os-x-design-refresh.}

The new look and feel of OS X is amazing. Tiger was the last release
where I felt the same.

I was playing around with the first Developer Preview last night, and
it's amazing. OS X have been evolving around more or less the same
design since I came to the platform for the first time in Panther, and
then as a daily user during Tiger.

This is the first time I really love the design.


## Actionable notifications. {#actionable-notifications.}

This is a feature that I have been craving for a long time. I can't
count how many times I have to leave an app, or unlock my phone just to
reply to some iMessage or Facebook message.

It's particularly annoying when you can't leave the app you are using
because you are uploading some file, or moving some pictures in Dropbox.


## Swift. {#swift.}

Swift is Apple's new programming language for developing OS X and iOS
software. And I really like it.

I think Objective-C is superior to both C# and Java; I'm way more
productive in Objective-C than any of them. But I also love Python and
Ruby.

Swift will without doubt make it easier for a lot of people to get into
iOS or OS X development, which is great. And I will write some app in it
pretty soon.

This might also lead to better software. C and Objective-C is great, but
it can be hard for people that are new to them.

The WWDC keynote gave us an insane amount of stuff we have been asking
for, since like forever. And I can't wait for it to ship.

(#blog)
