---
title: "Rundown on why I use Textmate"
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
url: "/2014/04/09/Rundown/93"
type: "post"
date: 2014-04-09T02:00:00+02:00
---

Okay, there are three major developer minded text editors for the Mac
these days. Well there are more, but there are three major ones. They
are [Textmate](https://github.com/textmate/textmate),
[BBEdit](http://www.barebones.com/products/bbedit/) and
[Sublime Text](http://www.sublimetext.com).

I started using Textmate when I got my first Mac. Textmate itself was
one of the reasons I wanted to buy "one of those weird Apple computers".

**BBEdit** is a great editor, but it's not for me. I have tried it
countless times. I kind of wish it was something that I could use. It's
one of the best supported Mac Apps in the world, and that is something
that I like. But there are a few things like auto-pairing that I can't
live with out, and also auto-save.

I know you can get both of those with some third party hacks. But they
are so important to me, that I need to have them built in.

**Sublime Text** is another great option. I used it for a long time. And I
think it is the best text editor for OS X. I used it for a whole year,
and I own a license to both version one and two. The package management
system, the speed of the development and all the crazy thing you can do
with it is amazing.

But there is two things about it, that makes it impossible for me to use
it. First of all, TextMate feels much more at home as a hard core Mac
user. And the multiple cursor thing is amazing, but I prefer using
"old-school search and replace" .

I use Textmate version two, not because it's the best tool out there.
But because it's the one that feels like home. Everything I need is
there, in the way I expect them to be. But I'm also scared that the Open
Source development of it will stop, and that the community leave it
unsupported and dead. It would be hard for me to replace it with
anything else.

But, I'm going to continue to test both Sublime Text and BBEdit, to see
if they can be what I need in the future.

(#blog)
