---
title: "The Levenger Circa System"
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
type: "post"
date: 2014-12-28T01:00:00+01:00
---

> I have been using the Levenger Circa notebook system for well over a
> decade. In fact, I've been a very happy Levenger customer and regular
> consumer of their products for about twenty-two years now.

<!--quoteend-->

> It's actually quite hard to write about something you have used for a
> very long time. Mainly, because it becomes a part of your life and who
> you are to the point you are practically unaware of it --- it's just
> there. This is what the Levenger Circa has become to me.

<!--quoteend-->

> Don't get me wrong, a bound paper notebook is good for many things. I
> have way more than my fair share of them. Some I use daily. They have
> their place and job to do.

<!--quoteend-->

> But, for many things, you need flexibility in the grandest sense of
> the word. You need the freedom of being able to re-arrange pages at
> will. You may have need to mix different paper types and styles. Maybe
> you need to mix 5×8 with some 3×5 cards with some 8.5×11. Or, perhaps
> annotated ruled pages, followed by a blank one, followed by two
> gridded pages, followed then by a zipper pouch for miscellaneous
> scraps. There are those times when you'd like to print off a report,
> punch some holes into it, and then put it into a notebook with some
> related handwritten notes. When such flexibility is needed, I reach
> for my Circa instinctively. I know a project has become a Project ---
> one that really matters --- when it has a Circa to live in.

The Circa system is very interesting. I have considered many times, but
I don't think it's for me. But you should take a look if you are looking
for a flexible paper system.

(#blog)
