---
title: "Twitter clients"
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
url: "/2014/01/05/Twitter/58"
type: "post"
date: 2014-01-05T01:00:00+01:00
---

I didn't expect this, but I changed my twitter client on both iOS and OS
X from tweetbot to twitteriffic.

The basic story is that I joined twitter in 2007. But I didn't get into
the native app game before early 2010. There is basically three sets of
twitter apps I have used for longer periods of time. Twitteriffic,
Tweetbot and the official ones.

I used Twitteriffic for OS X and iOS from 2010 -- 2011, and the official
for a short period before moving over to tweetbot when it was released
for the iPad, and then OS X. I used the official Twitter client on
Android, while I had a android device.

I got the Twitteriffic 5 for iOS when it was released. It was a very
good, fast and pretty client, with the same level of "cuteness" as
Tweetbot 1 and 2 had. Twitteriffic looked vert fresh, while Tweetbot
started to look more and more dated.

iOS7 happened. I actually waited to see what Tapbots decided to do with
Tweetbot and iOS7, I used to old and dated Tweetbot 2 all the way until
they released version 3. It was good, and I used it for a while.

I replaced the old Tweetbot for iPad with Twitteriffic somewhere between
when Tweetbot 3 was released and early December. I could not stand the
old and dated app anymore.

And I started to see these small details that I liked better, and
better. We need to face it. Tweetbot and Twitteriffic is very similar,
in how they look. There is just one place to divide them two; all the
minor details.

First I started to really like that cute bird. Something that made me
realise something. Twitteriffic is an app that managed to do something
that Tweetbot didn't. They managed to have the same level of cuteness as
Tweetbot had in the Skeuomorphic design, in their "flat" Twitteriffic 5
design.

Then I realised that I could change the font, to Avenir; a font I have
fallem in love with, while using Day One during the last few years.

I also think the built-in browser in Twitteriffic looks way better than
Tweetbot's. The colour and look of the icons on the bottom in
Twitteriffic is just an amazing piece of design.

But the final push happened when I finally got how brilliant the unified
timeline is. The fact that I can scroll through my main timeline, and
mark @-replies as read in the @-mentions tab as I go past them is
amazing.

There is one thing I don't like about Twitteriffic, and that is those
weird symbols they put in the Push Notifications. I get why they are
there. But they look weird and out of place.

Anyway. I would be happy in both apps, and Twitteriffic is the best one
for me, for now. The OS X version of twitteriffic is kind of dated, and
is close to a major version behind the iOS app. I still think it is the
best one for me.

\_\_I'm finally back to twitteriffic after a few years. \_\_


## Links: {#links}

-   [Tweetbot](http://tapbots.com/software/tweetbot/)

    <div class="HTML">
      <div></div>

    </p>

    </div>

-   [Twitteriffic](http://twitterrific.com)

-   [Day One](http://dayoneapp.com)

(#blog)
