---
title: "Three times in a row, poff, gone."
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
url: "/2014/01/10/Three/62"
type: "post"
date: 2014-01-10T01:00:00+01:00
---

I used to listen to a lot of different podcast, I mean a lot! And I
still do, don't get me wrong. But I have realised during the last six
months that I need to cut down on the listening, to get through the
amount of reading and writing I need and want to do each day, week and
month.

Don't get me wrong. I still love podcasts, and I would love to spend
more time listening to podcasts. But I don't work as a full time
developer anymore, and I found a lot easier to combining debugging,
writing code and sysdmin stuff, with podcast listening.

I use Day One to keep track of stuff. And this was no exception. This is
what I do. I open Day One, when I skip a show, I add a new entry
"Skipped podcast so and so, episode number that." and add a few tags
like for example "podcast". Now, I will unsubscribe if I see that I have
skipped the last three episodes of a show. Let's face it, there are show
I listen to every single time without exceptions. While there are show
that I listen to most weeks. And then you have the shows I really like,
but I don't have the time anymore. There are of course also shows that
have changed a lot since I started to listen to them.

One last note. There are shows that I want to keep track on, so I keep
them in my RSS reader instead of my podcast client of choice. The reason
for this is that it is a lot easier to scroll past a few pages on rss
items, than to download and then remove podcasts. And if I see some
episode that I want to see from a past show, then I can just huffduff
it.

[Huffduffer
is awesome](http://www.hjertnes.me/blog/-huffduffer-instapaper-for-podcasts)

(#blog)
