---
title: "Pen & Paper GTD."
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
url: "/2014/06/20/Pen/130"
type: "post"
date: 2014-06-20T02:00:00+02:00
---

My personal GTD system have gone through a lot of changes during the
last 12 months. I have written about my history with GTD in the past,
but I think I'll start with going through the history.

I used to have my custom GTD system, with a few text files and some
custom Perl scripts back when I was on Linux. It was great. It was what
I needed back then.

Then I moved on to using Remember The Milk in 2009. Before I started
using Things in 2010, and then I went back to RTM. And then I landed on
OmniFocus.

I never move on to something different because I think I'll be more
productive. I always move on to something different because I'm not
happy with how the system itself is.

But the last year have been different. First I used a combination of OF
and notebooks. It was a mess, and completely broken. Then I moved on to
a combination of TaskPaper and Reminders. And back to OF for a few
months.

I love OmniFocus, and I think the last version of OF for OS X is great,
but it isn't for me. It's just too much. So, I went back to playing with
the old combination of TaskPaper and Reminders a month ago.

Then I played around with just using Reminders. And a combination of
Clear and Reminders.

Here is the thing. There are no single app that covers everything I need
at this point. I want something simple that can handle a GTD like system
with a lot of lists / projects.

Then I realised something. About 1-5% of my tasks have due dates or are
reoccurring. Reminders can handle that in a usable way.

So, I just picked up a large notebook. And went through all the tasks I
had in Clear and removed everything irrelevant, and wrote the rest in
that notebook.

There are a few great "systems" for doing GTD-like systems with pen and
paper. My favourites are The Dash Plus System and The Bullet Journal.
And I have implemented a combination of the two.

It's simple. It's flexible. And it works, for me.


## Links {#links}

-   [The Dash
    Plus System](http://patrickrhone.com/2013/04/22/the-dash-plus-system/)

    <div class="HTML">
      <div></div>

    </p>

    </div>

-   [The Bullt Journal](http://www.bulletjournal.com)

(#blog)
