---
title: "Some thoughts regarding markdown flavours, and standardisation."
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
url: "/2014/09/07/Some/167"
type: "post"
date: 2014-09-07T02:00:00+02:00
---

Markdown is more or less the de-facto markup language these days. And
some people are trying to standardise the whole thing. I, and a lot of
other people have some problems with it.

My problem with the whole thing is the following 1. They didn't give
Gruber the time to answer them 2. It doesn't come clear in the name what
they are trying to do; example GitHub flavoured markdown is a good name.
While Standard Markdown is obnoxious and misleading. 3. Do we need a
standard?

There are many versions of Markdown; in many ways. You many different
parsers for the original format that Gruber made, there are minor
differences in most of them, but I don't think this is a major issue.

And there are a few different other versions that extend on the
original. Like MultiMarkdown or GitHub flavoured markdown. All of them
add something to the mix, that the original doesn't have. Which one you
use, depend on your needs.

I use MultiMarkdown a lot, because I like Footnotes.

We don't need "one markdown to rule them all". It would be nice to have
a test suite to make sure that all parsers do the basic markdown parsing
more or less in the same way. But it's not something we need to have.

The thing I would love to see is a project that takes all the different
flavours of markdown out there, and highlight the differences. In other
words: makes it easier for people to pick the flavour that's right for
them.

(#blog)
