---
title: "It’s fake"
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
url: "/2014/04/08/It/92"
type: "post"
date: 2014-04-08T02:00:00+02:00
---

This will be a short piece about a subject that have been driving me
nuts, while I was writing another essay. It might come out within a few
weeks.

You might know someone like this, "if you do the same thing as I did,
you'll end up with the exact same result". This is the most annoying and
stupid logic out there.

What I'm pointing at here is the idea of "IKEA-systems". Systems where
you need to do the exact same thing. The exact same way as the designers
and developers meant you should use them. And then they sell it as
something that would change their life.

First of all, it will not be that way for most people. And then you have
the idiots. The idiot1 you shared a office with one time. That installed
Evernote. And don't understand why everyone don't use Evernote for
everything in their life. Before he moved on to using OmniFocus, and
some other "stuff-management-solution".

The solution to most problems out there isn't the IKEA, follow these
instructions exactly as I tell you kind of solutions. It's the LEGO
solutions.

They are sometimes apps, and sometimes books. This is what GTD is. You
need to understand the ideas and concepts, and then you need to develop
and review your own implementation of that system.

There are no magic solution that solves anything out there. The only
thing you will find out there are tools that makes easier to solve your
problems, but you still have to do the job, yourself.

(#blog)

<div class="HTML">
  <div></div>

<li id="fn-0">

</div>

I have been this idiot. But it didn't take me long to understand that my
process on using apps, services and tools move too fast for anyone to
follow. So I just stopped talking about it. ↩ ↩
