---
title: "Retina iPad mini"
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
type: "post"
date: 2014-07-22T02:00:00+02:00
---

I finally upgraded my old, iPad 2, yesterday. This is something I should
have done a long time ago.

Let's begin at the start.

I tested the first iPad for a few days, when it came out. But I thought
it was too slow and heavy to be worth it.

But, I got the top of the line iPad, with 3G, when the second version
came out. And I loved it. That device was my go to, and main computer
for almost everything except for work and photography for that year.

The iPad, combined with a keyboard was much lighter and flexible than my
MacBook Pro. And iOS made it so easy to focus. I wrote a lot on that
thing.

Then I got a MacBook Air. And then I got an iPhone. And I haven't used
my iPad much since then. Except for a few times a month, and a couple of
experiments.

I was sold immediately when the first iPad mini was launched. But I
didn't upgrade. I was waiting. The first mini was more or less the same
iPad I had, with a small screen. And the speed of that iPad wasn't
great.

_Why now?_ The reason is simple enough. I had the money, and my Kindle
Paperwhite died a few weeks ago.

_Why the mini?_ My main problem with the big iPad is that it's too close
to MacBook Air. While it was too big for reading and writing on the
couch. Caught in the middle; between my phone and laptop.

I have been playing around with this thing for about 24 hours now. And I
love it. This is the most comfortable writing experience on a
non-keyboard device I have tried.

It's not hot like the MacBook; it's not cramped like the iphone; and
it's not heavy like the iPad 2.

The thing I love the most about this device, compared to the full sized
one, is that I don't feel the need for a keyboard. It's weird. I never
found any other comfortable way to write for more than two minutes on
the full sized one. The keyboard case, was a must.

I think this is the perfect mix. The best from both camps; the best from
the iPhone and the iPad.

You get the powerful iPad apps, on a device that feels as light and
convenient as the iPhone.

(#blog)
