---
title: "The new Simplenote."
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
type: "post"
date: 2014-01-13T01:00:00+01:00
---

I have been playing around with Simplenote tonight, it's very cool!

It's been a long time since the last time I used Simplenote, it was
around the time when everyone moved from using Simplenote as their go to
sync service for their nvALT database, to Dropbox.

They now have apps for: -- OS X -- iOS -- Web -- Android / Kindle

I have played around with all except for the Android version, and they
are pretty great. The thing I really like about them is that the whole
experience and design is close to identical on all platforms; at least
as much as they should be.

Why did I do this? Just for fun.

I'm going to write a longer post on all of the different apps I use for
writing on various devices after I'm done with another large post, I'm
working on.

One of the key reasons I started playing around with Simplenote was to
have a good, simple plain text note solution that I could point
non-geeks to. And simplenote is just that. I can't tell them to download
nvALT, change various settings there, install dropbox and then to
install Notesy on their phone. That would be too much. But I could tell
them to just install Simplenote everywhere.

I was a bit sceptical, but the fact that they have a export tool that
can export everything you put into Simplenote -- including tags, got be
to at least give it a chance.

What's to pro and cons here?

**Pro:** -- Beautiful and well designed apps -- Very fast sync -- Simple.
-- Tags. The tagging support in the sync, and how it is implemented in
the apps is very cool!

**Con:** -- The search is not as fast, as what you find in nvALT -- No
Markdown support. -- Less third party apps. -- The sync converts spaces
to tabs. **Don't put your TaskPaper files into Simplenote!**. -- No
premium accounts available at the moment...

Check it out [here](http://simplenote.com)

(#blog)
