---
title: "Managing your home screen"
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
url: "/2014/09/03/Managing/165"
type: "post"
date: 2014-09-03T02:00:00+02:00
---

Shawn Blanc wrote something very interesting when he linked to my
[iPhone
setup](http://shawnblanc.net/2014/09/eivind-hjertnes-iphone-setup/).

> I like to think that my iPhone's first Home screen is organized much
> like Eivind's --- that the apps on my Home screen are the ones I
> actually use regularly. But part of me wonders if I'm just so used to
> my Home screen apps that these are actually only the apps I think I
> use every day.

My iPhone dock and home screen see radical change every 2-3 months. This
is something I do on purpose, to avoid having a dock filled with apps I
think I use a lot, and a home screen filled with apps I also think I use
a lot.

This is how I look at it. My dock is for the apps I launch a lot -- or
need to have access to very quickly when I need them. Like for example
drafts. While my home screen is for the apps I use a lot. Not that apps
I would like to think I use a lot.

My method for making for making sure this is the reality is both simple
and easy to do.

Move everything off your dock and home screen and leave it empty.

Everything is empty, and you have some room to fill. The first thing you
need to do is to make a mental note of the apps you launch all the time.
Start moving them to your dock or home screen.

My personal opinion about how to organise the apps is the following. The
dock is for everything you need to access fast, or launch a _lot_. While
the home screen is for apps you use every single day.

Good luck organising your iPhone.

Remember, you don't need to have the calculator and camera app on your
home screen. It's pretty easy to access them via the control center.

(#blog)
