---
title: "Journalism, judges and lawyers."
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
type: "post"
date: 2014-03-10T01:00:00+01:00
---

I remember the first time I read the following quote; I was 12.

> Journalism is printing what someone else does not want printed:
> everything else is public relations. -- George Orwell

There is not much that piss me off more, than the fact that various
factors that in practice limits the freedom of press. We have a poster
here in Norway, that the newspapers and other news outlets "should" to
follow.

Another big issue today is the relationship between advertisers and the
press. They "can't" say stuff that might be insulting to some people.
For example how journalists in the US can't talk about evolution or
climate change as a real thing. Come on! both are real -- wake up -- and
see the facts.

First of all. The press should be free to say the things the public need
to hear. You might get pissed off. And you might get insulted. That is
how freedom of speech works.

What I want is websites, newspapers and TV-channels that have the guts
to say what we need to hear. Without thinking about if they insult
advertisers, or some stupid and ignorant voter demographic.

A free world with a free press is not free. And the current state of the
press, both in the US, Europe and Norway is not free. The advertisers
have too much powers. And the feelings of certain readers are too
strong.

I want to read stuff that is strong. That makes me think. That insults
my ignorance. And most important -- a press that show us what companies,
governments and all others parts of the society are doing.

(#blog)
