---
title: "Length"
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
url: "/2014/04/01/Length/90"
type: "post"
date: 2014-04-01T02:00:00+02:00
---

Myke Hurley had Merlin Mann as a guest on the latest episode of
[CMD+Space](http://5by5.tv/cmdspace/90). And they touched on something
that I care a lot about.

That is the question: how long should it be? It works on both podcasts1
and any form of the written word.

There is nothing I hate more than idea of having to write a certain
number of words. It doesn't matter if it is an article or essay -- I
hate it.

I have written a lot since 2011; both school, work and for various
web-sites. And my writing process when I can do whatever I want is
simple:

1.  Assignment or idea

2.  Figuring out what I want to say

3.  Writing a draft

4.  Re-writing it until the text is something I'm proud of, that also end
    up saying something, that is both clear and interesting

I get a lot of "Write 1500 words about X" assignments at the University.
This alters my writing process. Out of need, not choice.

1.  Read the assignment

    <div class="HTML">
      <div></div>

    </p>

    </div>

2.  Read about the subject

3.  Write the worlds worst first draft

4.  Look at the word count

5.  Write a longer, and less terrible draft from scratch

6.  Repeat until I'm at 1500 words

7.  Fix quotes.

8.  Re-write the worst parts.

9.  Fix qutoes and other formalities.

My main problem with the idea of writing something that has to be X
words is that I never know when it should end -- until I'm there.

You are telling a story, when you write or podcast. And you never know
what the length is. Mine are usually around 3-600 words. But that is
something that changes.

The important is to write something that is good. The length doesn't
matter, as long as it's the correct one for you, your audience and what
you are writing right now. And you audience would probably prefer 10 000
good words over 500 terrbile; or 500 good ones over 10 000 terrbile
ones.

(#blog)

<div class="HTML">
  <div></div>

<li id="fn-0">

</div>

I have never recorded a podcast, but I have been listening to an insane
amount of podcasts the last few years. ↩ ↩
