---
title: "Facebook Paper."
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
url: "/2014/02/04/Facebook/72"
type: "post"
date: 2014-02-04T01:00:00+01:00
---

Facebook released another app, last week. It's not available in Norway
yet, something that always drives me completely nuts. But, I have read a
few reviews, looked at the promo video and quite a few screenshots.

There is a few things here. First of all, the app itself looks amazing.
But, I doubt I'll ever use it, more than a few minutes, just to play
around with it.

The thing about Facebook is that most people I know, use it for
different things. There is a few things Facebook is really good at: --
Chat -- Group Chat -- Group communication -- Events

And that is more or less what I use it for, I also use it as a way to
learn the name of people I have met. Let me explain. I'm terrible at
names, but I remember close to every face. In other words, it's a good
way to connect the face to the name, after "networking-events".

You can see it above, but Facebook is mainly some kind of communication
device for me. While others use it to share pictures, and stuff like
that.

Here is the thing, I use twitter to follow persons that are sharing
information that I find entertaining. I don't care if I know them or
not. While Facebook is just a huge collection of people I have met,
talked or chatted / emailed with at some point. Some of them are sharing
interesting stuff, while others are boring as hell.

But, I know there are a lot of people, that enjoy the kind of crap that
are being shared on Facebook; maybe not in this corner of the internet.
Anyway, I think it will be exciting to see what Facebook end up doing
with Paper.

(#blog)
