---
title: "The real App Store problem"
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
url: "/2014/12/12/The/195"
type: "post"
date: 2014-12-12T01:00:00+01:00
---

There have been a lot of unfortunate events with the iOS AppStore review
team since iOS 8 came out. Some people blame the review Team, while
others blame the lack of communication between them and the
marketing(editor picks). I think both of them are wrong.

Apple shouldn't do what they have been doing. Which is: make it hard to
make cool stuff with their new API's. And they shouldn't just make
exception for developers that are big enough to get media to back them.
The thing Apple should do is ot make the guidlines better.

Let me explain what I mean with better. Should be clearer. And it should
be more like a consitution. This is what both the developers and the
reviewers have to work form. Both have to follow them. If Apple want to
have a App Store with bleeding edge software, that are pushing the
limits of the platform, then they have to do things in a different way.

1.  Don't pull apps that have been accepted to the store, unless you have
    a very good reason for doing so.

2.  If you see something you don't like, that dosen't break the guidlines
    -- update them. And make the developer change it in the next update.

3.  Make sure the guidelines provide the right constraints. Avvoid the
    bad stuff, and foster the great apps we have seen in the past.

Developers need the security to know that they you don't remove
something they worked on for a year, after a few days. Think like this:
you need to live with it, in 9/10 situations, until the next update, if
you accept it into the store.

(#blog)
