---
title: "Education"
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
type: "post"
date: 2014-07-18T02:00:00+02:00
---

Education is a subject I care a lot about. And I don't think everyone
understand why it is important.

Taking a degree in something, might be about being able to work as a
engineer or doctor, but it's also about learning how to learn, growing
as a person and to show the world that you can complete something.

I would like to, but I can't ignore the cost of going to college in the
US. It's ridiculous! And governments around the world need to fix the
cost of higher education. Educated people are a good thing.

The difference between for example the US and my home country, Norway is
huge. I pay under $200 a year to study at a state university. I get a
student loan from the state, and parts of is converted to a stipend if I
pass all my exams.

When I look at the different kinds of degrees at any given university or
other higher education institution I see two things, the kind of degree
you take to become something, like a law degree, medical degree or to a
lesser extent an engineering degree. And then you have the more
academic, but more flexible degrees. They aren't about becoming
something. But they are about studying something you care about, and
then you can apply it in many different jobs for the rest of your life.

I have a trade school diploma in electronics and IT. But I'm taking a
degree in philosophy, now. The great thing about studying something at
the humanities department is that you will learn two things you can use
anywhere in life. You learn critical thinking. And you will learn how to
write, if you want to.

I have some strong opinions about computer science degrees. They are a
waste of time for most people. You might need it if you are going to do
something very complicated, like developing operating systems, googles
back-end services or databases. And you need it, if you are doing
academic research. I think most people could learn everything they need,
online. And a lot of people have been doing just that, for as long as I
can remember; that's how I learned everything I know about computers.
And almost everything I know about English.

Everyone should consider taking a degree, or at least a few courses at
the humanities department. Especially if you don't know what to do. Find
something you are interested in, and learn what it's really about.
History, religion, culture, art, or my beloved ancient art and science
of everything --- philosophy.

(#blog)
