---
title: "OS X Yosemite & Launchers."
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
type: "post"
date: 2014-06-16T02:00:00+02:00
---

OS X Yosemite brings some long overdue features to Spotlight. And some
people believe this is bad for the companies that are doing launchers.
Like Alfred or LaunchBar. I don't agree.

First of all. Spotlight will be enough for some people. The people that
just want to find apps, files and don't need anything except for the
built-in searches in the new Spotlight.

But there are a lot of power user features in both LB and Alfred that
you don't get in spotlight.

I don't use LaunchBar. It's a great app, but I find Alfred to be a much
more configurable and easy to use alternative.

I have been a user of Alfred since before the 1.0. The exact date I
started using it is fuzzy, but I think it was early 2010.

Here is the thing about Alfred. You get a great default experience.
Everything from ejecting DMG files or drives, to finding files, apps,
contacts. You can even control iTunes with it.

But the thing I love about Alfred is that it's easy to create new
workflows. You can trigger them on files, keywords and hotkeys. I have
one to lock the screen. And I have another on to update my jekyll site.
Just to mention two of the many workflows I have.

My understanding is that you can use more or less any scripting language
to write workflows for Alfred.

And there are a load of existing Alfred workflows available for download
around the internet. You should check out
[Alfred](http://www.alfredapp.com) if you want an easy to use but yet
powerful launcher for OS X.

(#blog)
