---
title: "Goodbye Squarespace"
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
type: "post"
date: 2014-03-08T01:00:00+01:00
---

I've been playing around with a few different content managing systems
during the last few months.

Let me start with saying the following. Squarespace during both version
5 and 6 have been great to me. There was a long time where I had nothing
to complain about. And I think Squarespace is the perfect platform for
someone to get started on. And I don't think I would have continued to
write my site for this long, haven't it been for Squarespace.

The reason I left is that there have been a few things I want, that they
haven't solved since the public beta days of version 61. The two major
remaning ones have been real MultiMarkdown support and a public API.1

I moved back to WordPress today. There are many reasons for me picking
WordPress, over many of the other CMS'es out there. The three main
reasons have been:

-   Scaleable hosting solutions like WPEngine

-   Plugins for close to anything

-   Apps like Poster for iOS or MarsEdit.

I went for a solution that just worked back in 2011; now I'm going for a
solution that works the way I want it to work. That includes third party
apps, my preferred markdown flavour and most important -- me writing
scripts or apps when or if I need them.

Squarespace have been good to me. And I still think it's the best place
for anyone to start, if they just want to get a website or start writing
online.

(#blog)

<div class="HTML">
  <div></div>

<li id="fn-0">

</div>

They have solved a lot of other issues though. ↩ ↩
