---
title: "Jekyll!"
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
url: "/2014/10/21/Jekyll/179"
type: "post"
date: 2014-10-21T02:00:00+02:00
---

I'm back on Jekyll, once again. There are things I don't like about
Jekyll, and every other content management system out there. But Jekyll
is the one that makes the one thing I really care about very easy:
publishing words.

My reason for going back to Squarespace earlier this year, was to
publish from iOS. Since then, we have gained access to iOS 8, and apps
like Transmit. This makes it not only possible, but also easy to manage
a Jekyll site from iOS. I use Editorial to post, Transmit to manage the
files and Prompt if I need to fix something on the server.

The biggest change this time is how I host it. The last time I looked
into it, I went for a regular web host option. It worked okay. But, I
couldn't regenerate the site anywhere except for on my MacBook. I spent
a few days looking for a cheap VPS last week, and I found out that
Lindoe had a $10 a month option. Which is more or less the same as
Squarespace.

Jekyll, and other static web site engines are simple by design, and a
good fit for geeks and hackers. But it's not the best for everyone. I
love to be able to have everything in markdown and git. And have a
script to regenerate or update my site.

Some people prefer to use a web interface or app; I prefer to save a
file in a folder, or ftp it somewhere and let a script take care of the
rest.

I'll get back to my complete Jekyll setup some other time.


## Links {#links}

-   [Jekyll](http://jekyllrb.com/)

-   [Editorial](http://omz-software.com/editorial/)

-   [Transmit](http://panic.com/prompt/)

-   [Prompt](http://panic.com/prompt/)

(#blog)
