---
title: "OmniFocus 2 or TaskPaper + GoodTask"
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
type: "post"
date: 2014-05-28T02:00:00+02:00
---

OmniGroup released OmniFocus 2 for mac a few days ago; or something. I
started to write this at the day. But then I got busy, and wasn't able
to complete it.

You might know this already, but I have been "on and off" OmniFocus
quite a few times during the last six to eight months.

Let me start at the beginning. I have been using the OF 2 betas during
both of the beta phases. And I liked it. But I'm not going to buy OF 2
for mac, right now.

One of the reasons for this is that OF is a overkill for what I look for
and need in a task manager.

I have been doing one thing every time a new major version of an app
comes out. And that is to look into if I need to update, and if the app
is the best fit for me anymore. OF isn't the perfect fit for me anymore.

My workflow during the majority of the last eight months have been
either TaskPaper + Reminders or OmniFocus. My Taskpaper and Reminders
workflow have been to use Reminders for repeating tasks or anything with
a due date. And TaskPaper for everything else.

The thing I love about TaskPaper is that I can add 100 task in the same
time as I can add 25 in OF. The other thing is that it just gives me a
list, that I can add tags to, group in projects. And the powerful
filtering syntax gives me what I need.

I use Reminders for everything else. It just works. One of my problems
with Reminders have always been that the built in Apple apps are
terrible. But then I found GoodTask. It's a great set of apps for both
iOS and OS X. You should check it out, if you are using Reminders.

The thing I love the most about GoodTask for OS X is the awesome
forecast view.


## Links {#links}

-   [GoodTask](http://goodtaskapp.com)

    <div class="HTML">
      <div></div>

    </p>

    </div>

-   [OmniFocus](https://www.omnigroup.com/omnifocus)

-   [TaskPaper](http://www.hogbaysoftware.com/products/taskpaper)

(#blog)
