---
title: "Najowrimo"
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
type: "post"
date: 2014-12-24T01:00:00+01:00
---

[About
NaJoWriMo for January 2015 | National Journal Writing Month](http://najowrimo.org/welcome-to-najowrimo/about-najowrimo/):

> Whether you keep a traditional pen and paper journal, or a digital
> journal, the purpose of the National Journal Writing Month
> (NaJoWriMo) is for using the power of journaling to enhance and
> document your life.

<!--quoteend-->

> Many studies have shown that journal writing can be therapeutic for
> your personal health, a creative outlet of self-expression, and way to
> document your life as you live it.

<!--quoteend-->

> NaJoWriMo is based on the NaNoWriMo (National Novel Writing Month)
> challenge. NaJoWriMo is useful for new and veteran journal writers.
> This month-long challenge is great for those who want to get started
> with journal writing, but have been putting it off for various
> reasons. It's also useful for frequent and veteran journal writers
> looking to use NaJoWriMo for improving their journal writing or
> focusing on a particular journal writing project.

I found this via Patrick Rhone's
[The
Cramped](http://www.thecramped.com/national-journal-writing-month-tips-•-journal-prompts-•-projects/)1. I have joined in on NANOWRIMO once. It was a great
experience to write something long, in a short time. I will without
doubt join in on this. I might even get involved with the project at
some point. Writer or not -- you should try to join in on this.

(#blog)

<div class="HTML">
  <div></div>

<li id="fn-pat">

</div>

A brilliant site, by a brilliant writer, about using analog tools. ↩
