---
title: "Budget apps."
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
url: "/2014/10/19/Budget/177"
type: "post"
date: 2014-10-19T02:00:00+02:00
---

Budgets is probably the worlds most boring thing, but still very
important. The reason I think so is to be aware of how much money you
spend, and / or what you spend your money on.

There are two different budgeting apps out there that I have used. And
like. I have tested a lot of them.

-   [Left
    to spend](https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/left-to-spend/id389245325?mt=8)

    <div class="HTML">
      <div></div>

    </p>

    </div>

-   [YNAB](http://www.youneedabudget.com)

They are two very different apps. My favourite is Left to spend.

YNAB is probably the best one. And I think I'll get back into using it
later in my life. It's a complete system, with apps for OS X, iPhone and
iPad. You also get access to a lot of cool training materials.

This is a typical budget apps. You add your income, the different
expenses, and divide your money across them. And then you start adding
the stuff you spend money on.

While Left to spend is different. The basic principle is that you look
at all the money you have after paying standard bills, like rent,
electricity and stuff like that. And divide it by 30. That's the amount
you can spend every day.

You just add money you spend it the app. It's a great way to keep track
of how much you spend. It is my favourite app for keeping track of how
much I spend.

If you want to get a little bit more control over your finances, check
out one of them. Left to spend it a great place to start. And YNAB is
great for when you want to get serious.

(#blog)
