---
title: "Intentions for next year."
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
type: "post"
date: 2014-12-23T01:00:00+01:00
---

The year is almost over. And I thought it was a good idea to list up a
few intentions for next year. Some of them are things I have done in the
past, and some of them are things I plan to do the next year. The
purpose for the list is to give you some inspiration for next year.

-   **Photography**. You might have a DSLR or another nice camera lying
    around, or you could just use your iPhone. Try to get better at taking
    pictures. There are many ways you can improve your photography skills.
    Everything from different settings on your camera, to getting better
    at composition, to how you edit your images. But the most important
    thing is to shoot as much as possible. Try to take a few pictures
    every day. My goal is to always cringe when I see pictures I took a
    year ago. Try to always beat the previous you.

-   **Journaling** is one of my favorite hobbies. I try to journal every
    single day. And I think I can count the days I haven't journaled in
    the last year, on one hand. First of all get
    [DayOne](http://dayoneapp.com). It's a great app for iPhone, iPad
    and OS X. I use it all the time. There are many different things you
    can do with it. This is what I do:
    -   I write a short text every day. It can be two lines, or 500 words. I
        write down what's one my mind. It's a great way to go back to see
        what you were doing or thinking about at any given moment.

    -   Take a picture of yourself. I have done thins for a very long time.
        It's both strange and weird to see how your looks change over time.

    -   Weekly / Monthly re-cap. This isn't something I do that often. But
        there are times when I feel the need to close down a period. And
        that is the times where I just write something long.

    -   Pictures. One of the great things about Day One is that you can add
        pictures. My workflow for managing pictures I take with my phone is
        to upload everything to Dropbox, then delete it from my camera roll.
        And then I go through them all and add the important ones to DayOne.

-   **Writing**. If you want to, then you should. Starting a blog isn't
    hard. Start a [Squarespace](http://squarespace.com) site. And start
    writing. Don't think about quality in the beginning. Just start to
    write. And give yourself some slack, and some constraints. I would
    recommend writing one blog post every week and take it from there.

-   **Learning**. This is one of my main intentions for 2015; I plan to
    watch a [Lynda.com](http://lynda.com) coerce every week, this year.
    There are many small things I want to learn. And I think doing it with
    the Lynda format is a good start. There are probably many things you
    with you could do, or was better at. Lynda is a good place to start.

-   Reading. I read a lot. Both on the Internet and the university. My
    goal for this year is to read for at least 30 minutes every single
    day. The only requirement is that it isn't related to my studies.

-   **Walking**. My plan last year, and this year is to get more exercise. I
    plan to take a walk somewhere, as close to every day as possible this
    year. One of my best life hack when it comes to getting into habits,
    like journaling, photography, writing or exercise, is to start at the
    minimum. That means that I figure out the smallest thing I can do, and
    start from there.

These are some of the intentions I have done, or plan to do. I think
they are a good source of inspiration. Check them out, and good luck
next year.

(#blog)
