---
title: "Code, and comments."
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
type: "post"
date: 2014-08-24T02:00:00+02:00
---

I was just listening to
[Pragmatic](http://techdistortion.com/podcasts/pragmatic/episode-34-my-code-s-nicer-than-your-code),
and John had Guy English on. They were talking about something I care a
lot about, code.

I'm a huge fan of writing small units, classes, method and so on; that
do one thing -- the right way.

Before we move on, I don't do all of this, all the time; but that's just
like testing. I wish I could, but I don't have the time often enough.

There are a few things we programmers could do to our code, to make it
easier to understand. Variable names, method names, class names,
comments and explaining it in a readme file.

I try to always give everything a name that explains more or less what
it is. And I also try to write a simple readme file that explains all
the important information regarding the project.

One of the reason I don't write as many comments as I should do, is
because of all the bullshit comments I have seen in source code during
the 10+ years I have done software development.

The most obvious, as most important rule is to not comment things that a
experienced developer in the field you are working would understand. You
don't need to write a comment on the following python line "counter +=
1". Every Python programmer, and probably most other experienced
developers would understand it.

I'm a strong fan of having small files, that are containing exactly what
you need; and just that. And those stupid author and copyright comments
drive me nuts. Put it in at text file, or git. It's not that hard to
export it, if you need to.

If you use good method, class and variable names, then you don't need to
comments most of your code. And the same goes for writing easy to
understand code. Avoid "smart" tricks. It's better to have longer code,
if it makes it more maintainable.

But, if you need to use some fancy hack to make the performance better.
Comment what it's doing, and why. And write comments if you have
something where the name don't explain what it's doing.

In other words, document how the project works in a readme file. And use
standard conventions. Python have standards, and so does Objective-C --
use them! And comment everywhere it doesn't explain itself, or where you
can't follow the standard for some reason.

(#blog)
