---
title: "iCloud 2014"
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
type: "post"
date: 2014-06-05T02:00:00+02:00
---

iCloud is a huge collection of different services; and it's growing.

I think most power users have a far from perfect experience with parts
of the iCloud infrastructure. My personal experience is that parts of it
works great. Like Calendar, Contacts, Reminders and Backup.

And then you have stuff like the document sync, that works more or less
as it should.

The thing that most of us had huge problems with was the CoreData sync.
My personal opinion as a developer is that this was a bad idea. And a
typical Steve Jobs era "Apple Magic" concept.

My biggest problem with iCloud happened last year, in August. I don't
know what I did, but I had to spend quite a few hours on the phone with
Apple support to get it fixed. The problem was that my whole iCloud
account was in some kind of state that made any file or piece of data
stored by any app in iCloud was unaccessible. I couldn't download or
upload files, or sync anything. Except for Reminders, Calendars and
Tasks.

Let's move on.

The new features added to iCloud is interesting -- very interesting.

iCloud drive is more or less like Dropbox, only by Apple. I think it
will be great, and I don't see any reason for Apple fucking it up.

Photos, I haven't had any problems with the photo part of iCloud, my
only problem with it is that it's confusing.

CloudKit isn't anything I would ever use. But that's because I like to
have control over the web service. I have written many of them -- and I
don't have any problem with managing servers. CloudKit isn't something
for everyone, but it seems like a great soultions for syncing states and
simple data between apps. You can't build the next Instagram on it, but
I think it could be a great soultion for everyone that just need to sync
small amounts of data.

The problems with iCloud in the past was that Apple tried to be "smart"
about stuff that is really hard -- if not impossible to do. This
generation of iCloud seems like a nice collection of sensible
technology. And I actually think they will manage to pull it off this
time.

(#blog)
