---
title: "A call for a spring cleaning in the iOS App Store"
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
url: "/2014/06/15/A/127"
type: "post"
date: 2014-06-15T02:00:00+02:00
---

I wish Apple would do something radical about all the ageing apps in the
App Store.

There have been a few evolutions that call for either a complete
redesign or some minor updating since the store launched.

First we had the retina screens; a minor update in the developer &
designer side. All you had to do was to provide graphics in 2x. And I
don't think it took long for most geeks to find an temporary or
permanent replacement for the apps that wasn't retina ready.

Then we had the iPhone 5. I haven't been a victim for the letter boxing
issue for a long time. But there are still apps, that I can't find
replacements for, that haven't been updated. And it's close to two years
since the iPhone 5 shipped.

I have updated some iPhone apps to support both the old and the new
size. It's some work, but not a lot.

Then we had iOS 7. This was a golden opportunity for everyone to get up
to speed. Most apps needed either minor or major updates. And a lot of
apps have came out of the grave since iOS 7 hit the market.

While others haven't.

I don't think Apple will do anything about this. But I think they
should. The best thing would have been to remove all "dead" apps.
Especially if they don't work at all on newer OS releases.

David Smith talked about one very intriguing idea on episode 52 of
[The Prompt](http://5by5.tv/prompt/52). And that was that the Apple
review team shouldn't just review new apps. But also existing apps.
_Ongoing review._

Some of the big problems with the current model is:

1.  There are so many apps, and most of them sucks.

    <div class="HTML">
      <div></div>

    </p>

    </div>

2.  It would be so much easier to find the good ones if the old &
    terrible apps disappeared.

3.  Apple contacting a company about pulling their app from the store,
    might push them into updating it.

The whole idea of removing old and crappy apps is tempting. But it's
harsh.

There are two others ways Apple could attack it.

Shaming. I think Apple should punish all the companies that don't follow
up on updates. Just put a "Out of date" tag on all apps that haven't
been compiled against the iOS 7 SDK.

But the thing I think would be a lot better is to just hide them. Hide
all the apps that haven't been compiled against, well the iOS 7 SDK
would be too much. But the iOS 6 SDK should work.

And just provide a filter setting for viewing "outdated" apps. Not
unlike the option for viewing iPhone apps in the iPad App Store.

It's about time for a real spring cleaning in the App Store.

(#blog)
