---
title: "What’s So Special About the AeroPress"
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
url: "/2014/12/31/What/223"
type: "post"
date: 2014-12-31T01:00:00+01:00
---

> In more ways than one, I grew up in a fussy coffee home. My parents
> didn't want me drinking coffee until I was 16 because they were
> concerned the caffeine would stunt my growth. Who knows.

<!--quoteend-->

> My home was also fussy about coffee because my dad only ever brewed
> with a french press. I grew up thinking that brewing and drinking
> coffee was a special thing. I still think that.

<!--quoteend-->

> I'm now 33, and have more than made up for the cups of coffee I missed
> out on the first half of my life. In my kitchen we have a cupboard
> dedicated entirely to coffee contraptions: a Mokapot; a stovetop
> espresso maker; an Espro brand french press, a classic Bodum french
> press, and a single-serving french press; a vacuum siphon coffee
> maker; two different styles of V60; the Clever Dripper; a Kalita Wave;
> an Able Kone system; and, of course, the AeroPress.

<!--quoteend-->

> [...]

<!--quoteend-->

> But the AeroPress is by far and away my favorite. And I know I'm not
> alone here.

I love my AeroPress, I have two of them. They are cheap, easy to use and
make very good coffee. They are also very easy to clean. The funny thing
about this simple plastic device is that it often make better coffee
than expensive espresso machines I have tried. My advice to people that
want to get into coffee is always to get a AeroPress, a good grinder and
Chemex. Some people want to make espresso, while others want something
closer to pour over. Both of them make excellent coffee.

(#blog)
