---
title: "Huffduffer"
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
type: "post"
date: 2014-01-06T01:00:00+01:00
---

Huffduffer have been one of the services I have meant to check out for a
very long time. And I did, for a long time ago, but I have finally
gotten more into it.

The basic principle is that you create your own curated podcast feed.

The service itself is what you expect. You install a bookmarklet in your
browser of choice; and you click it, and follow the instructions to add
a podcast to your huffduffer account.

And then you just add that RSS feed to your podcasting app of choice.

One of the things I did during December was to clear out a lot of
podcasts out of my list. I had huge amounts of them. Some of them were
interesting at some point, while others were some show that Merlin or
Marco appeared on at some point. So, I got rid of them.

**My old workflow used to be:** -- Merlin is on some podcast that I don't
listen to -- Subscribe -- Listen to that episode -- Check out a few
others -- Either: listen to the whole back catalog, or "mark all as
read".

**New workflow:** -- Merlin is on some podcast that I don't listen to --
Huffduff that episode, and a few others if it looks interesting

I don't think Huffduffer is for everyone, and I don't think Instapaper
or Read it later services is for everyone. But if you are the kind of
person that subscribe to a show just to listen to some or very few
episodes, then huffduffer might be something for you.

The service works great, most of the time. I have seen that it don't
detect the audio file URL sometimes. But other than that: great service.

[Check it out](http://huffduffer.com)

(#blog)
