---
title: "Some reflections on iOS 7."
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
type: "post"
date: 2014-01-25T01:00:00+01:00
---

I don't think there are many people that are happy with the current
state of iOS. Seriously, even my mom complains.

There are a lot of things that are not good enough on iOS7, but I didn't
expect anything even close to perfect with this release.

I'm not the most "analyst" friendly person in the world, that's just
because most of them are crap. The thing that really piss me off, when
it comes to a lot of the commentary regarding iOS 7 is that most of them
don't understand Apple. They release something, and continue to improve
on it, until they have to "burn it down" to be able to continue the
innovation.

I don't think the first versions of OS X any better than iOS7, and I
think the first version of iPhone was just as bad. The difference is
that we have gotten used to something better since then. And I don't
think iOS 7 was close to ready, when it had to ship.

Apple could have shipped another iteration of the iOS1-6 look and feel,
and I don't think that would have annoyed, anyone, except most of us
geeks. But Apple didn't. They chose to ship something that they barely
got out the door. My impression is that iOS7 is built for the future,
and that iOS 7.1 and beyond will be awesome.

There are a lot of issues with iOS 7, some of them are design related,
while others are programming related. There are three major issues that
I hear about often:

-   Springboard reboots

-   Device reboots

-   Slowdown.

All of my current iOS devices are rather old, and I don't experience
many reboots of any kind on my iPhone 4S. But, there are some major
speed issues. My theory is that there are some major memory leak issues
on iOS 7, because my device isn't slow after a reboot.

Is iOS7 unusable? No. Is iOS7 in general close to what we had in
previous versions? No, it's a lot buggier, and a worse experience in
some ways. But there are also a lot of great new features that I have
gotten used to, like for example background refresh.

To draw a line to an Android phone I used in 2010; the HTC Hero. HTC
shipped an Android 2.0 update that was way worse than the performance
you'll see on an iPhone 4 or 4S running iOS7; or what you saw on iPhone
3G running iOS 4.

A lot of companies have shipped versions of their products that are way
worse than what Apple do, or have done during the last few years. This
is not an excuse for Apple, but we have to live with the fact that
everyone expect Apple to deliver on a much higher standard than any
other company out there.

(#blog)
