---
title: "Field Notes"
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
type: "post"
date: 2014-07-26T02:00:00+02:00
---

My latest Field Notes order finally showed up today. The one thing I
don't like about them is the same as always, and that is how long it
takes to ship them all he way to Norway.

And the fact that they use Paypal.

I ordered my usual order of three packs of the usual small ones. This
fits right under the price limit without having to pay taxes on them.
But I also placed a second order, three packs of the new Arts and
sciences edition.

This is probably the most exciting announcement about Field notes since
I discovered them. I didn't know what to expect. But I'm delighted.

The new size is small enough to fit the the pocket of my leather iPad
mini sleeve, together with my favorite pen.

The small field notes are great for writing down ideas, tasks and notes
when you are out. And this new and larger version will be great for the
same things, but in a different context.

I think it will become my go to notebook, when I'm in meetings, in
lectures and sitting in front of a desk. Either coding, writing or
editing pictures.

After trying countless notebooks, I have come the a conclusion when it
comes to notebook sizes. The small ones are great, when you need
something portable. The large ones though, are inefficient. I can never
make use of all the space. While the mid sized once, like the new field
notes, are the perfect match for me. You have more room, but not so much
that you waste paper.

The new field notes is kind of like the iPad mini; the perfect thing
between the iPhone and laptop. Only that it's the perfect size between
the smaller notebooks and the whiteboard.

(#blog)
