---
title: "Charge more, and more often!"
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
type: "post"
date: 2014-07-29T02:00:00+02:00
---

Jared Sinclair
[wrote
something](http://blog.jaredsinclair.com/post/93118460565/a-candid-look-at-unreads-first-year), that I didn't expect.

He basically published the sales numbers for both versions of his app
Unread.

What I see isn't too uplifting. There are a lot of issues. And it's hard
to be a indie developer.

But, there are a few things I would love to see. Sustainable pricing on
good apps.

I don't have a lot of money, but I do have a app budget. And I don't
have a problem paying real money for great apps.

Would I pay a lot more for my favorite apps? Yes. Look at what The
OmniGroup are charging.

And I wouldn't have a problem if the developers released a new major
version, as a new app, once a year. Some people don't like it, but I
don't care. Good apps being maintained are more important to me.

There are however one idea that I would love to see more places. And
that is the tip jar. Like you see in David Smiths
[Pedometer++](http://pedometerplusplus.com).

Byword, DayOne and Drafts are apps that I have used every single day for
a very long time -- without spying them anything in a long time. I would
love to be able to give them a few bucks every few months with a simple
iAP.

In other words, higher prices, release major updates as new apps / paid
upgrades and tips / donations. These are the thing I think we need to
make sure our favorite indie developer make a decent loving, and
continue to deliver updates to the apps we love. And to continue to
create awesome apps.

(#blog)
