---
title: "Curation is key."
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
url: "/2014/07/30/Curation/156"
type: "post"
date: 2014-07-30T02:00:00+02:00
---

I guess a lot of people would call me a photo snob. And it's fair.

I complain about people taking pictures with iPads, and it makes me sad
when people use their tablet or phone for all of their vacation
pictures. And most important I carry a DSLR, sometimes with a huge lens.

The only reason for doing this is to get people to have a good camera,
either compact or something fancy, for special events, or trips.

Some people care, while others don't.

There is nothing I love more than a picture I took, that reminds me of
something I loved. Like a good party or a trip; or even something random
and cool, you saw.

My favorite pictures are divided into two camps, the pictures that are
great from a technical standpoint: the stunning picture. And the blurry
iPhone pictures I have taken, because that's all I had.

Both of them are great. For a lot of the same reasons. And also for the
opposite reasons.

People take picture for a lot of different reasons. I do it to save
memories. While others do it to tell a story, or something.

My end goal is to have a part of my photo collection in something like
DayOne. Only the shots I love the most.

I don't know how many pictures I have. Probably too many. And I don't
keep many of the pictures I take.

Don't keep everything. But keep the good ones, and the ones you love,
even though they aren't that great. And put the most important ones in a
place where you see them.

Curation is key.

(#blog)
