---
title: "Day One Publish"
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
type: "post"
date: 2015-01-05T01:00:00+01:00
---

I was really excited about [DayOne's](http://dayoneapp.com)
[publishing](http://dayone.me) feature, when it launched. And I still
like it, a lot. There are a lots of good blogging platforms out there;
Squarespace, WordPress, Tumblr, Jekyll. And you have excellent platforms
for sharing stuff; twitter, Facebook, Tumblr, Flickr, Instagram etc.

But there aren't any other solutions to what DayOne have done with
Publish. It's a service that is between your journal, twitter and blog.
I love having everything important to me in DayOne. I can just browse
there and find stuff that means a lot to me.

There are a few things I have used Publish for. And I have some ideas
for what Publish is good for.

-   Writing letters. I have done this once, and I'm going to do it again.
    I wrote a letter in DayOne, to have it there. Then I published it, and
    shared the link.

-   Pictures and text. The core of DayOne is writing and pictures. And
    Publish is a great feature to share them with your frinds or family.

-   Anything written that you just want to share with a limited audience.

The great thing about Publish is that it's like a private blog or
twitter. Everything is private, that's the default. And then they added
Publish. You can share that one thing with that person or group. I love
using twitter and this site. But there are thing that don't belong in
the public, and publish is my "blog" or "twitter" for that content.

(#blog)
