---
title: "What if the iPad ran iPad OS? | iMore"
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
type: "post"
date: 2015-02-06T01:00:00+01:00
---

**iMore:**

> The Apple Watch runs WatchOS. It's a stripped down version of iOS,
> optimized for a much smaller screen and much smaller battery. It also
> has its own, distinctive look and feel, including its own take on the
> Home screen, its own interaction methods like the digital crown and
> force touch, and its own, distinctive capabilities like the Taptic
> engine, optimized for a wearable.

<!--quoteend-->

> In contrast, when Apple decided to launch the iPad, they used iPhone
> OS. It was originally suggested they use the exact same single-column
> interface, but because it wouldn't make efficient use of the much
> larger screen, they decided to implement a dual-column interface
> instead. Yet the Home screen and design language remained the same as
> the iPhone, as did the interaction methods and capabilities.

<!--quoteend-->

> Imagine instead, like the Apple Watch, the iPad ran its own distinct
> version of iOS: iPad OS. Rather than a stripped down version for
> smaller screens and batteries, imagine it ran an amped-up version that
> really took advantage of bigger screens and batteries, with a Home
> screen, interaction methods, and capabilities optimized for a tablet.

I've had the same though, and done the same thought experiment a few
times. And I don't think the answer is to have a iPad OS on its own. But
I think it is to have a common core, shared by iPhone, iPad and iWatch,
combined with a really focused design language for each one.

I think the iPad is great, but it still feels like a big iPhone. I would
love to see a iOS version that really took the iPad serious.

(#blog)
