---
title: "Daring Fireball"
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
url: "/2015/11/12/Daring/729"
type: "post"
date: 2015-11-12T01:00:00+01:00
---

[Alex
Hern, writing for The Guardian](http://www.theguardian.com/technology/2015/nov/12/apple-user-anger-mac-apps-break-security-certificate-lapse):

> Mac users faced trouble with their apps overnight after the security
> certificate Apple uses to prevent piracy expired late on Wednesday.
> Applications downloaded from the Mac App Store were temporarily
> unavailable from 10pm UK time, when a security certificate expired,
> five years after its creation, with no replacement immediately
> available.

<!--quoteend-->

> Even once Apple fixed the error, issuing a new certificate for the
> apps (with an expiry date of April 2035, this time), users were still
> faced with problems. Those who could not connect to the internet
> couldn't verify the new certificate, while those who had forgotten
> their password or couldn't log in to iCloud for some other reason are
> also unable to use the downloaded apps until they can log in to the
> service.

I used to manage various SSL and other security certificates in previous
jobs. And I used to have a calendar event around three monts before each
of them had to be renewed to be sure that everything was renewed long
before they expired.

I think Gruber's response is more or less perfect:

> Inexcusable for a service that is absolutely essential to users and
> developers.

I have to re-download a bunch of apps because of this crap. Apple: get
your shit together. This isn't that hard, just use Calendar.app.

(#blog)
