---
title: "Apple Music"
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
type: "post"
date: 2015-07-10T02:00:00+02:00
---

Apple Music launched a week and a half ago, and I signed up for the free
trial right there and then. I also stoppet my Spotify subscription and
deleted the app.

My initial impression is that the app itself isn't that great, but there
are things I love about the new service. The thing that I started loving
straight away is the fact that both my iTunes Music, and the streaming
collection is available from the same place. This is the thing I
disliked about Spotify and Rdio.

I have also been playing around with the "For you" section the last 5
days. The library available in all the different streaming services are
more or less the same, but the difference between them are the app and
the stuff they do to be different, with that.

While the Apple Music app isn't the best, I think Apple will iterate and
improve on that in the coming weeks and months. And the playlists are
fantastic. I'm not the kind of person that listen to a lot of new music,
that period is over, as I'm getting closer to 30 years.

The thing I love about the "For you" section is that they are giving me
all kinds of great playlists, that either have artists that I love that
I haven't been listening to for a very long time, or special playlists
featuring parts of artists songs that I haven't heard in a very long
time. For example this morning: the acoustic period of Bob Dylans
career.

Apple Music(and Beats) is the first service with a usable curation
section, that actually gives me stuff I want to listen to. And I really
look forward to using it. It is the only thing I have been using since I
set it up and started to tell it what kind of stuff I like.

I hoped that Apple would get this right, but I feared they wouldn't. And
the result is beyond anything I could hope for. The curation part isn't
just for discovering new music, but also for finding stuff you didn't
remember.

I look forward to what the feature brings.

(#blog)
