---
title: "What it’s like to be way too popular for a day"
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
url: "/2015/01/06/What/249"
type: "post"
date: 2015-01-06T01:00:00+01:00
---

**Marco**:

> Most of my posts go effectively nowhere, but occasionally, one will
> unexpectedly go really far --- and this blew past everything I've ever
> done. When that happens, there's no chance to revise, no room for
> error, and no way to stop it.

<!--quoteend-->

> If there's any flaw, it's an unstoppable nightmare of embarrassment
> and guilt. Most people, myself included, aren't accustomed to that
> level of scrutiny. Those who are usually have PR training, editors,
> and handlers to protect them from publishing flippant blog posts
> before they go to bed.

<!--quoteend-->

> Instead of what was intended to be constructive criticism of the most
> influential company in my life, I handed the press more poorly written
> fuel to hamfistedly stab Apple with my name and reputation behind it.
> And my name will be on that forever.

<!--quoteend-->

> Had I known that it would go as far as it did, I never would have
> written it.

<!--quoteend-->

> I now need to write everything with the fear that any hastily written
> article might end up on TV, with the most extreme word in the article
> singled out with my name on it forever.

<!--quoteend-->

> I'll keep writing --- I can't stay away. But academically, it's not
> worth the risk.

I feel bad for Marco, and I liked the original post. Most of what I
write don't go anywhere, and most of the stuff the bigger Apple sites
write never go anywhere outside our little bubble. A lot of them agree
with what he said in the original post.

People that read Apple related sites like Marco.org, DaringFireball and
MacStories have a context. They understand where it's coming from, and
why. I don't think mainstream media and everyone else have the same kind
of content. I really hate it when you see a storm in a teacup just
because someone don't understand the context.

(#blog)
