---
title: "Review The Apple Silicone Case"
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
url: "/2015/12/11/Review/743"
type: "post"
date: 2015-12-11T01:00:00+01:00
---

I have been using my new iPhone 6s Plus for a week and a day now. The
case I picked when I ordered it was the Red Silicone Case from Apple.
And I have to say: it is the best case I have used so far.

The week I have used this case is the longest I have used any case with
any iPhone. I have never been a fan of them. It was never a design
thing, it was more about them adding bulk and making it a slower process
to go from in my pocket to having it unlocked and doing something.

I chose to go for a case this time since almost everyone I heard from in
real life, on twitter, on blogs and podcasts that used to have naked
iPhones went for a case with their 6 / 6 Plus. So I went with the case
that had the best results in most reviews.

The cases I have used before is: The Apple 4/4s bumper and I also used a
sleeve with my iPhone 4s for a while(a two or three days).

The verdict thus far is that this case is very good, and almost
necessary for something as slippery and heavy as the iPhone 6s Plus. I
love how the silicone feels when I hold it, and it isn't so minimal that
my phone isn't properly protected, while at the same time providing good
protection.

There is one thing that I think is annoying about it, though: it is a
little bit too much friction when I try to slide it up from my pocket.

But over all, the Apple Silicone Case is what I would recommend for any
iPhone 6 model.

I will test out another case this weekend. And that is the
[Book
Book](https://www.twelvesouth.com/product/bookbook-for-iphone-6); I need a new wallet, and I think it is the time I am considering
a wallet case for a phone. There are two reasons for this, the iPhone 6s
Plus is already big, and the Book Book makes is so easy to pull it out
of the case, that it isn't a hassle, when I'm writing or something like
that.

(#blog)
