---
title: "Macbook Air rumors."
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
type: "post"
date: 2015-01-11T01:00:00+01:00
---

There have been a lot of talk about the recent Macbook Air rumors
lately. Both
[Jason
Snell](http://sixcolors.com/post/2015/01/the-macbook-air-returning-to-its-roots/) and
[John
Gruber](http://daringfireball.net/2015/01/charging%5Fusb%5Fonly%5Fmacbook) have written excellent posts about it.

The Macbook Air is my favorite Apple device. It delivers something
magical. You get the best battery capasity possible. And you also get a
very capable laptop, with all the same ports and power that you get in
the more expensive retina models. The only difference I see between the
two is the screen and power. There are a few tasks when you notice it.
Photoshop, Lightroom, Logic and Xcode. But it's enough for almost
everyone.

The rumor presents soemthing new. I don't think it is something that
could replace the current Macbook Air line; and I really hope it
doesn't. It seems more like something between the iPad and 11″ Air.
There should be a cheap and very capable entry level mac; the 13″
Macbook Air is that. You have everything from USB to a SD slot.

I don't think this rumor will lead anywhere. And a keyboard case from
Apple, with a full sized keybarod that made it feel more like a laptop
would be a lot more interesting that this.

Some people really want a Macbook Air with a retina screen; I'm not one
of them. The retina models are more expensive, and their focus is a
fantastic screen and more power under the hood. While the Macbook Air
have another set of priorities; good enough, price and battery.

(#blog)
