---
title: "Quitting Family Sharing"
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
type: "post"
date: 2015-01-04T01:00:00+01:00
---

David Sparks writes about Family Sharing:

> Family Sharing is a great idea. Families, like mine, have growing
> children that will one day leave the nest and need iTunes accounts of
> their own. Moreover, Apple now has multiple device categories
> resulting in families hitting their head against the 10-device limit
> as the kids start growing up and iPhones, iPads, and Macs multiply.
> For a few years now, we've had to decide which of our devices get
> iTunes Match and which don't. It's quite frustrating that we can't
> share music we've paid for across all our devices.

<!--quoteend-->

> The promise behind Family Sharing was that it would get us away from
> that problem. In theory, we'd all be able to have our own accounts but
> still share purchases as long as all the accounts are on the same
> credit card. If at some point, one my children moves out or pays with
> her own credit card, she retains her library and we stop sharing. I am
> okay with that particularly if it lets me have my 2 Macs, iPad, and
> iPhone all work without running into above-mentioned DRM walls.

<!--quoteend-->

> What I didn't realize was the fine print. There are a few bits that
> are potential deal breakers:

A great post, that outlines some of the issues with Family Sharing. I
don't have this problem, yet. But I hope Apple will solve most of them
by the point I need to deal with this. Family Sharing is a good idea,
but I don't think it's there yet.

(#blog)
