---
title: "Omni Productivity Pack coming to iPhone in Q1, 2015"
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
url: "/2015/01/18/Omni/256"
type: "post"
date: 2015-01-18T01:00:00+01:00
---

> All of Omni's currently shipping iPad apps will be updated to be
> Universal apps, designed to feel at home on both iPad and iPhone. If
> you already own any of our current iPad apps, you will soon be able to
> use them on your iPhone at no additional cost.

<!--quoteend-->

> [...]

<!--quoteend-->

> We really appreciate the early support from those of you who have
> already purchased OmniFocus 2 for both iPhone and iPad. To show that
> appreciation in a concrete way, we will be offering a $10 rebate once
> the Universal app has shipped so that you won't have paid any more for
> the two apps than someone who buys the Universal app.

Great news. I have been waiting for a iPhone version of OmniOutliner,
since the iPad version came out. This is fantastic.

This reflects my impressions since the iPhone 6 plus came out. And that
is that the division between iPhone and iPad is despairing.

I still believe that one should always make the best possible iPhone
app, and the best possible iPad app, like OmniFocus and Fantastical.
Both are examples of how to make something work really well, on
different devices. The future might be three devices. One interface for
iPhone, one for the 6 plus size and one for the iPad.

I don't think this is the end of great iPad or great iPhone interfaces.
But I hope it's the end of having to buy separate iPhone and iPad apps.

(#blog)
