---
title: "Why I’m not changing to Photos.app"
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
url: "/2015/02/08/Why/307"
type: "post"
date: 2015-02-08T01:00:00+01:00
---

The new Apple photos app, have been one of the biggest news items for a
few days now. And I get why so many people are excited about this.

Aperture and iPhoto was left behind around a year ago. They are replaced
by a new app, simply called Photos.

I think its great that Apple finally did it. iPhoto have been in a sorry
shape for a very long time. And they needed to create something that
works for people in 2014. It needs to handle a lot of pictures, and it
needs to sync between OS X and iOS. And it needs some of the power of
Aperture, but not all of it; only in a package that most people can
manage.

I'm not that excited. Most of my pictures are in Lightroom. And the
reason I moved away from Aperture, to Lightroom was because I wanted to
use a product the company in charge takes serious. And Adobe is the
company, and the product is Lightroom.

The pictures I take with my iPhone is another story. I have written
about this before. I basically upload everything I take with my iPhone
to Dropbox, and then I go through them, and import the pictures I want
to keep into DayOne.

In other words, the only pictures I import into my photo app of choice
is the stuff I take with my Canon DSLR. And I feel a lot more
comfortable with Lightroom. I might consider moving to Photos at some
point. But that would only be the day Apple manages to keep up with
Adobe's release schedule for at least five years.

I'm pretty sure that Lightroom will be around for a long time. But I'm
not that sure I can say the same thing about Photos.

(#blog)
