---
title: "Apple News And The Open Web | Bitsplitting.org"
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
type: "post"
date: 2015-06-21T02:00:00+02:00
---

**Daniel Jalkut:**

> Approximately 0% of the podcasts available to the massive installed
> base of Apple's customers are actually hosted on Apple's servers. Yet
> a huge number of podcast content providers thrive because of the
> distribution mechanism, the amplifier, that Apple provides by way of
> the Podcasts section of its iTunes store, and the Podcasts app on its
> iOS devices. If Apple decides on a whim to rank a particular podcast
> lower in the charts, or even to outright remove it from the iTunes
> directory? It's definitely bad news for the show, but it's not a death
> knell. The content lives on, access to it remains unfettered for those
> who seek it, and alternative clients for accessing the content are not
> "permitted," because they don't need to be. They are allowed to exist
> by default, because of the very nature of the web. [...] I'm
> optimistic that Apple's News app will be a strike against centralized
> services such as Medium, Twitter, and Facebook. A strike against
> signing over content to a 3rd party mediator for the sake of a greater
> chance at connecting to an audience. Apple may not be the world's best
> technology company when it comes to either storing data or building a
> social network around it, but they are damned good at building a
> captive audience of delighted users who trust the company to provide
> access to a variety of 3rd party content.

(#blog)
