---
title: "Macsparky"
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
url: "/2015/10/22/Macsparky/715"
type: "post"
date: 2015-10-22T02:00:00+02:00
---

> The mechanism that is an SLR camera--the mirror, the shutter, and the
> rest--is a bit old and creaky. Removing it in mirrorless cameras madE
> competition from outsiders easier. I'd argue the same is true for the
> internal combustion engine. Existing car makers have so much
> specialized knowledge about how to make the best and most reliable
> internal combustion engines and, for many years, the acquisition of
> this specialized knowledge was the barrier to entry for anyone that
> wanted to make cars. However, that is changing. Electric cars are much
> simpler. There is an electric motor that is attached to a chassis with
> some sort of braking and steering mechanism. Carburetors, pistons,
> engine blocks, smog absorbers, oil pans, and all that other junk that
> are required to make an internal combustion engine all get thrown out
> the window with an electric car.

I mostly agree, I think, as for the fossil care, there will be a time
and a place for it, for a very long time to come. But I don't think it
is the right thing for most people today. But I think people, like me,
who has a lot of money invested in accessories and glass for a type of
camera are going to stick with it for a while.

The question for me, is not if I should get rid of my DSLR or not, but
rather if there are some mirrorless camera that fit between my DSLR and
my iPhone; the answer to that question right now is: the Fujifilm
X100-series.

Will my next camera my a DSLR? No, it will be something like the
Fujifilm X100t. But I know I will buy another Canon DSLR when my current
camera breaks

The reasons are simple:

-   I have most of the optics I want and need, and it is much cheaper for
    me to buy a few more lenses to have everything, than it is to sell
    them, and start from scratch.

-   I have a lot of other accessories

-   I know exactly how to get what I want from it

-   The view-finder in a proper SLR is much better.

(#blog)
