---
title: "Twitter in 2015."
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
type: "post"
date: 2015-01-03T01:00:00+01:00
---

I have a lot of thoughts and opinions about Twitter. It have been my
social network of choice for a long time now. I just love how open and
simple it is.

There are however at least two different twitter experiences at this
point. One of them are the bleeding edge experience provided by the web
site and the official twitter apps. And you have the more old school
version of twitter, that you find in apps like Tweetbot.

Twitter by itself is pretty simple. You have tweets, @-mentions,
retweets, stars and hashtags. And that is more or less it.

But there are some differences between how you experience twitter in the
official app, and most third party apps.

-   **Ads.** The only place you will see ads on twitter, is on the web site,
    and in the official apps. I don't like them, but I do believe that
    this is the only direction twitter can go, at this point. I would have
    preferred for ADN to take over for twitter. But that didn't happen.

-   **Replies.** Replies is one of the biggest difference between the
    official experience and my tweetbot experience. Replies are grouped
    below the tweet in the official app, while they just appear in the
    point in your timeline, the reply was posted in third party apps. This
    makes the reply system more like a regular comment thread or e-mail
    thread. Neither is better. And the way twitter is doing it now makes
    more sense to new users. But I still prefer the old way. It's the way
    I'm used to seeing them.

-   **Injected tweets** is my least favorite thing about the official
    twitter app. They are forcing me to see tweets and twitter accounts
    that they believe I would find interesting. It's probably a good thing
    for new users and some people. But I don't like it. One of the reasons
    I love twitter is that I'm in charge of what I'm going to see;
    something I'm not on Facebook.

-   **Power features.** The more popular third party clients are more
    powerful in some regards. They have advanced filtering, with regular
    expressions or based on hashtags. And you have fancy stuff like
    timeline sync etc.

I'm not going to switch over to the official apps before I have to. I
don't like the ads, but that's not the reason. I like the power
features, but that's not the reason. I don't like the way they organise
replies, but that's not the reason. The thing that keeps me from using
the official apps are the stream of tweets that twitter thinks I would
like. I don't want them, I don't care for them.

I don't like the direction twitter is going. What they are are not the
twitter I signed up for in 2007. And they have become more and more
hostile against third party developers, the people that made twitter
popular. Third party developers have strange limits on the number of
people that can use the app, and they don't get access to any of the new
stuff twitter have created.

I hope it will change, but I doubt it.

(#blog)
