---
title: "Future-safe weblogs | Manton Reece"
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
url: "/2015/08/18/Future/569"
type: "post"
date: 2015-08-18T02:00:00+02:00
---

Domain names and hosting fees are two issues regarding having a future
proof blog. But there are more. One of the key reasons I moved away from
Squarespace and WordPress is that I wanted something more future proof.
And this blog is readable as long as there are web browsers that can
view HTML. That is one of my favourite thing about static blogging
engines, you can just archive the output folder, and you have a version
of the site that will work forever.

I don't see WordPress going anywhere, but none of us saw Wordperfect og
Microsoft Works going anywhere; they are gone. I don't want to be in
that situation. Jekyll is great, and they have a pretty good WordPress
importer. So I would just have automated a Jekyll version of the sites
that imports a WordPress export. This is what I had for the last year
with Squarespace, and the 2 months I used WordPress.

The reason I did was to have a backup, if Squarespace fucked up(they
never did). But I also had it to have a tested solution that I could
trust, by the time I wanted to do the switch.

I'm confident that my site is future proof. I have my own domain, more
or less any cheap static hosting solution can handle it, and it will
work for as long as there are web browsers that can view 2015 HTML, CSS
and Javascript. And it don't rely on any server side code.

(#blog)
