---
title: "The Perfect Lens"
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
type: "post"
date: 2017-12-18T01:00:00+01:00
---

What is the perfect prime lens?

This is of course a very loaded question, and different people have very
different opinions of what's "best". When I say "best" I should probably
say "versatile". If you get a SLR and only want one lens on that camera,
what should you get?

If, you are going to use that camera for more than one thing, I think
there are two very good options. A 35mm or a 50mm.

When I talk about focal lengths here, I do of course talk of them as if
you were using a full frame or a 35mm camera. For example a 23 and 35mm
lens on my Fuji would be the same as a 35 and 50mm on my 35mm analog
film camera.

The 50mm is a classic, and probably the lens. And it have been so
popular for a very important reason. It is wide enough to be able to
capture your friends in front or you or landscapes. But still long
enough so you need to work on your composition. And it is still long
enough so you can use it for portraits, and get nice bokeh.

The 35mm on the other hand is awesome for shooting what's in front of
you without having to step too far back. For example when me and Ingri
visit my parents, and I want to take a picture of all of them walking
the dogs. With a 35mm I don't need to be far back, but I would have to
with a 50mm.

The biggest difference between the 35 and the 50, because both of them
are excellent general purpose lenses, is the effect of bokeh. The wider
the lens is, the less you see the bokeh.

I prefer my 50mm in general. It is the lens I have on my camera 90% of
the time. But I like to use something wider, when I want to shoot groups
of people without having to step back or being able to capture the whole
of what's in front of me. And if I'm just shooting portraits, I prefer
something longer.
