---
title: "What I got out of studing Philosophy."
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
url: "/2017/11/03/What/826"
type: "post"
date: 2017-11-03T01:00:00+01:00
---

I have always had a hard time explaining to people why they should study
Philiosophy, I just think that it will do most people some good. Here
are some of what I got out of the four years I spend completing a three
year bachelor programme in Philosophy.

1.  I know less than when I started; or rather I'm wiser, and certain of
    far fewer things than when I started

2.  I have a solid foundational understanding of how and where the ideas
    that form modern society come from, and came to be.

3.  When a text is difficult to understand, it can be because of multiple
    reasons

4.  You don't have the tools required to understand it

5.  It is bad writing

6.  What you are trying to read, are something at odds with or too complex
    to be elegantly put into words.

7.  There are no obvious solutions; and the winning one is very often
    the least shitty solution; if there is a winning one.

8.  Even a hard core atheist like myself can read and appreciate
    religious thinkers like Augustine. Because behind the religious
    rhetoric is just the same moral and being problems any person
    willing to open a philosophy book struggle with.

9.  It is amazing how different it is what different people get out of
    the same text. Both in how they understand it, and what they think
    about it.

10. How you read is very different, depending on the text; sometimes you
    just need to power through without understanding everything, and
    then re-read it a million times; while other times is understanding
    every single sentence in relation to each other the proper strategy.

11. You need to put the Philosopher to the side, when you read a text.
    And you need to put what you know about the text and the philosopher
    to the side. If you want to get the most out of reading it.

12. Some books can give a literal headache. For me is it Tractatus
    Logico-Philosophicus.

13. Question everything, and accept nothing based on authority or
    tradition.

14. What you thought you meant is always what you mean, when you analyse
    it logically.

15. Logic is hard, but useful, up to a point.

16. Understanding different interpretations, even though you disagree,
    is useful.

17. Listen to the eccentric professors.

Half of what you get from a structured programme from a University is
something you could do by yourself. Many universities have all their
syllabuses available online, and you can probably find them in their
book stores, if not. And if you read all of you have around half of it.

The other half is what you don't get by yourself, plus the "if I don't
read this it will have consequences". Because getting through the I
don't know how many thousands of pages was hard.

What you don't learn by yourself is the tools and the discussions. When
you go to lectures and seminars, you learn how one reads and studies
philosophy and you also learn how to discuss the content of the same
texts with fellow students. The former is necessary to get anything at
all out of reading most philosophy, because there are more to it than
skimming through the books. And the latter is important because it opens
your eyes to how different people understand the same thing.
