---
title: "Ink Review"
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
type: "post"
date: 2017-11-27T01:00:00+01:00
---

[I received
this 30ml bottle of ink free of charge from Tudos, for the purpose of
reviewing it. Tudos have been very supportive of The Ink Smudge since
our paths crossed, and I would recommend checking them out if you live
in Norway. I buy all of my notebooks from there](https://www.tudos.no/produkt/diamine-30ml-fyllepennblekk/)

Funny thing, I can never for the live of me remember what this ink is
called. I always have to reference my "Transparency" page.

This is my first bottle of ink, that isn't from Iroshizuku in a few
years. I got to say it, the experience is very different.

First of all, I love the ink, the colour is awesome and I enjoyed
writing with it. Are there inks I didn't enjoy using? Yes, I have used
inks that feels "scratchy", and I really hatet that. I assume it was
because the ink wasn't lubricated enough.

But, the bottle feels really cheap. It is plastic. This isn't all bad.
But it is another world than the awesome glass bottles Iroshizuku comes
in. I see two problems with it though, the hole can be a little bit
narrow for some pens, and there is no design accommodations to make sure
you can use as much ink as possible.

Keep I'm mind though, this ink is priced at $7.50 while a Iroshizuku is
priced at $30: the latter comes in a larger bottle, but still at least
twice the price. ($0.25 per ml vs $1,7 pr ml)

This ink looks awesome. It is kind f weird that I have gotten so into
blue inks lately. I used to hate them.

This ink reminds me of those light blue standard inks everyone sends you
with their pens. I call it "BIC blue".

I hate those inks, but I love this one. It is a darker, and looks "just
right". I have tested it with all of my pens and it looks just as good
with finer and broader nibs.

The only bad thing about this ink is that the dry time is significantly
longer than with Iroshizuku. It isn't so long that it is a problem. But
I notice that it is something I need to think a little bit about.

Keep it in mind if it is the kind of thing that is a deal breaker for
you.
