---
title: "Import and Export"
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
url: "/2017/12/01/Import/890"
type: "post"
date: 2017-12-01T01:00:00+01:00
---

**A important note:** this article is intended to be a explaination of how
you can import and export code using ES6 modules. It doesn't deal with
how the various other schemes work or how you should do it in node. And
it doesn't deal with how to make sure the different schemes interact
with each other. This is simply put how I do it in my Webpack + Babel
based projects.

The way we are going to deal with modules in Javascript in the future is
by the import and export pattern. You are probably used to it, if you
are using babel and or webpack as a pair of your tool chain. There are
some support for it in node, but the support are rather limited, and I
haven't looked much on it, except for seeing in the change log that some
support were addeed.

The basic idea is that the code in one Javascript file, is not visible
to be imported into another Javascript file, unless you tell it "hey you
can import this". Each file can have one thing that is the default one,
and any number of other exports. If you are using React the default
export might be your compoenent connected to Redux, but you might also
want export the component without that; then the connected might be
prefixed with "export default" and the other prefixed with just
"export".

For example:

<div class="HTML">
  <div></div>

<script src="<https://gist.github.com/hjertnes/0606bce176755b128b8309a8751ca039.js>"></script>

</div>

<div class="HTML">
  <div></div>

<script src="<https://gist.github.com/hjertnes/5842a87568d50a0ab1f3038adf2f8a76.js>"></script>

</div>

The code above is intended as a demostration only, it doesn't work
because it is missing some imports and so on.

If you have some piece of code, that is marked with `export default`
then you import it with
`import WhatEverYouWantToCallIt from './Filename'`, and if you prefix it
with just `export` then you import it like this \`import
{theNameInTheModule} from './Filename'.

The biggest difference is that the default is imported without {}, and
you can call it what the hell you want; while the rest need to be
imported with their actual name and you need to place {} around it or
them. The import export syntax introduced in ES6 is far superior to what
we had before it, and is very intuitive as soon as you get a grasp on
{module} vs module and export vs export default. This is without one of
the "Javascript starts to feel like a real programming language"
moments.
