---
title: "Review of my iPhone 8 Plus."
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
url: "/2017/12/04/Review/892"
type: "post"
date: 2017-12-04T01:00:00+01:00
---

My iPhone buying strategy have always been to use them until they break
or the battery is useless. How much time that takes varies, but it is
always between two and two and a half years. What happened this time was
much more dramatic. I broke the screen of my 6 Plus a year agp. And then
I started to see some signs of watar damage after I waled the dog.

The result was that the phone slowly died over that night. And I ordered
the best possible replacement the morning after. It wasn't without
compromises.

My original plan was to wait until the iPhone X was available. But going
without a phone for a few weeks or months wasn't an option; because
everything from two factor authentication for banking to my train season
ticket is on my phone.

My revised plan was to get a either a 8 Plus or a 7 Plus; basically the
best one available to be sent "now". I went with a 8 Plus Space grey.
The 64 GB model.

It's kind of strange that I'm on the lowest storage option now. On one
side is it good that Apple have phones, where the cheapest one is
usable. But on the other side I realize that it might just be that my
needs are going up much slower than the rest of the world.

What do I think about it? I love it, it is more or less the same as my 6
Plus. Just faster, newer and better. But everything feels familiar.
There is a little bit more "grip" to the surface of the 8 and X phones
compared to the previous models (excluding the JetBlack). But I would
still recommend getting either a Apple leather or silicone case; I got
the latter.

This is the kind of upgrade where I would be fine with a faster version
of what I had. But there are also some new stuff. Like for example the
extra camera lens. I love that my phone now has both a 28mm and 50mm
equivalent lenses; meaning that what you see is more or less the same as
you would with a 50mm and 28mm lens on a full frame or a 35mm camera.

I'm not sure how I feel about the lack of a headphone jack. There have
been times where it bothered me. My PowerBeats were on repair, and I had
to charge my phone and I wanted to listen to podcasts. But I use my
bluetooth PowerBeats most of the time. So, not being able to charge
while using headphones isn't something that affects me a lot.

Anyways. A great upgrade, if you want a new phone fast. Or if you just
want a better version of what you had.
