---
title: "Thick vs thin notebooks"
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
type: "post"
date: 2017-12-11T01:00:00+01:00
---

I have used very thick notebooks, and I have use very think notebooks;
everything between the Travelers Notebook refills to huge A4 notebooks
with around 500 pages.

There are good and bad things about both and everything in between.
These days I tend to prefer the ones in between; like the hard cover
Leuchtturm1917 A5 notebooks. Because I think they are the perfect
compromise between not taking a lot of space and being very heavy and
being too expensive because you run through a lot of notebooks.

The good thing about smaller notebooks is that they are small, you can
fit them almost everywhere and they are not very heavy. Perfect examples
of this are pocket sized notebooks like Field Notes and both versions of
the Travelers Notebook; I always go with the latter if I want a notebook
but don't have a lot of extra space. While the good thing about the huge
notebooks is that you get a lot of notebook for your money because there
are more pages to cover the cost of the cover, than if you have smaller
ones.

What's right for you? Well, it depends on you. I would try out different
M-x postformats. And different formats will probably be good for
different I use the smallest possible notebook (a Nock.co pocket sized
one) for writing lists on the go, and I keep my journal in a Travelers
Notebook because the think refills and soft cover makes it possible to
always have it with me. But when it comes down to task management and
drafts of larger texts I prefer Leuchtturm1917 A5 notebooks; enough
pages that they last for a long time but small enough to not be a hassle
to bring with me every single day.

I have come to this conclusion after trying out more or less every
single format available over many years, and tried them out for
different kinds of use cases.

The process of figuring out what works for you is something I personally
think is very valuable, because it is the only way to find the best
options for you. And I always try to identify when something isn't
working anymore.
