---
title: "Learning React now and then."
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
url: "/2017/12/12/Learning/912"
type: "post"
date: 2017-12-12T01:00:00+01:00
---

When I started to learn react in 2015 I thought it was a challenge. Not
because react itself is difficult, but because there was a lot of stuff
surrounding it one had to know. It kind of reminded me about when I
started to do web development back in the stone ages. "You need to know
html, css, javascript, php, mysql, apache cookies". And I just
understood that I should learn all of it, without understanding what
everything was or why I had to learn it.

The short version is that the react community is very good for better an
for worse to use the bleeding edge of new Javascript features, even when
they are in drafts stages. But I wasn't familiar with all of the new ES6
features when I started to learn React. And when you finally understood
what was going on, then you had to learn how to get webpack or
browserify up and running. Looking through a million different config
files trying to find a config that works.

What I recommend that you do today, if you want to learn React is to
start with "create-react-app". It is a very good package for starting a
new react app without having to worry about anything but react. You
might still want to learn how to configure webpack, but I don't think
you need so unless you have some particular needs or have a larger app.
I have deployed smaller apps into production using create-react-app.
