---
title: "Webpack"
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
type: "post"
date: 2017-11-23T01:00:00+01:00
---

There have existed build tools for Javascript as long as I have been
coding with it. I can without doubt say that they are _better_ and
_easier_ to understand today than they have ever been. But there are
also much more you "need" to know before you get started.

The problem tools like Webpack, Browserify and Grunt try to solve is
that on one side you got how developers want to have their code
organised to make it as easy as possible to have control over this
ungodly mess we have chosen to do, and how a browser prefer to consume
it. While you probably prefer to have your code neatly organised in
different folders with as small, but not too small, files that only have
methods that do "one" thing. This is not how your browser prefer to
consume it. And a browser is not the only way to use Javascript these
days.

A browser prefer a few larger files over _many_ small files. What I mean
by "prefer" is that it is faster if you do it this way. There is of
course a limit to how large those files should be, webpack starts to
warn you if you pass a few hundred KB. If you have too many small files,
then your browser spend more time opening connections to your web server
than it does on downloading them, but if they are too big your bandwidth
are not used efficiently enough; if the total is a megabyte, then it
would probably be faster to download it as 10 100kb files, instead of
one 1014kb files or 1024 1kb files.

There are also many other benifits. You can do all your css processing
in the same build precedure, for example compiling from LESS or SASS to
css. But the biggest advantage is to use it with Babel to enable the use
of Javascript language features that aren't available in all browser
yet, or css features that are behind prefixes and let babel and css
plugins convert everything to something that is safe for what ever
browser requirement you define.

You can also use webpack to solve one of the most annoying problems with
web development, after the browsers started to become very aggressive in
caching resources. That is: you updated index.js, but you can't see the
changes it your browser. Or you have updated the server, but you need to
get a customer to clear their caches. That's not going to happen, right?

So. What you can do with webpack is to get it to generate a HTML, either
an empty one or one based on something you define that links all the
javascript resources for you, and get it to give the javascript files a
unique name; so instead of bundle.js you can call them bundle-[sha1].js.
And that means that there will be a new file with a new file name every
time you update. No more "have you cleared your caches?" e-mails, slack
messages or phone calls.

I think every one should use something like webpack for their web
development, at least if you move beyond a humdred lines or Javascript
code. There are alternatives to webpack, but I would go for it, because
it seems like most of the community have adopted it as _the_ standard.

No code or samples in this one, but I'm probably going to show how I'm
doing stuff with webpack in the near future.
