---
title: "setState"
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
type: "post"
date: 2017-12-19T01:00:00+01:00
---

It might look silly to have a seperate article about setting state. But
some people are simply doing it wrong. And others are not aware of some
of the more geeky details about the setState method.

The .setState method is how you change state in React. It takes either
one or two arguments; one is what you want to update and the second is a
optional callback to run after the state have been set. This is the
thing I assume most people don't know: state is set async. This means
that: this.setState({foo: 'bar'}); console.log(this.state) will not
always or ever result with {foo: 'bar'}. If you want to do something
after the state have been fully updated, then you have to add a
callback.

Let me get back to the first argument of setState; it can either be a
object or a function returning a object. The object is what you want to
change and not your entire state. If you only change one value, you only
need to send that value.

One techincal detail at the end. When I say that setState changes state,
this is technically not true, even though the result is that the changes
you want are applied. What it does is to send a series of requests to
update the state, and React figures out the most efficient way to do
that. This is the reason .setState doesn't immediatly update the state.
And it doesn't really change / mutate it, but it replaces it with a new
object which is the previous one + the changes, something like this
setState = (changes) => Object.assign(this.state, changes).

And a final note. I would try to limit the number of times you run
setState, instead of calling it multiple times use a method to generate
the changes. Because each time you run setState may result in a
re-render; too much rendering is a certain source of bad performance.
