---
title: "Analog photography."
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
type: "post"
date: 2018-01-01T01:00:00+01:00
---

I have written about analog photography a lot. And I will probably
continue to do so.

Some people love it, other people hate it. And some people have the same
kind of feelings about digital photography.

I love both. The fast iteration of digital makes it possible to learn a
shit load in just a single weekend. While bare minimum of analog
photography makes it very enjoyable. But I believe that everyone will
become much better photographers if they spend time shooting with a
fully manual camera. Without anything but a meter. All of us understand
how the various settings of our camera affects each other. But you will
understand it much better, when you have to do it all yourself.

You need to shoot in manual, if you want to master exposure. One option
is to set your digital camera to manual. But I thought it was much
easier to do it with a analog camera from the late 70s. Because it is
designed for shooting this way, while the only modern cameras that are
designed for this come from Leica and Fuji. And because you don't have
the option of turning stuff back on.

You will understand what auto focusing and your camera meter are doing.
And you will realize that the exposure doesn't need to be spot on. Same
goes for focusing; unless you're shooting wide open.

I think shooting analog have had a bigger impact on my photography than
most of the books I've read.
