---
title: "New Camera Bags"
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
url: "/2018/07/12/New/1466"
type: "post"
date: 2018-07-12T02:00:00+02:00
---

I have a long and complicated relationship with camera bags.

None of the ones I have bought have worked out very well for me. Because
I tried to find one solution that fits the mall, before I gave up.

Then I decided to solve it. Usually I don't need a camera bag, because I
either just bring the camera using the strap, or in some other bag like
my laptop bag; because I only bring one camera with the lens on it. But
there are times when I would like to have something, either because I
want to bring more than one camera or a camera plus a lens, and there
are times when I want to bring "everything".

One of my constraints was that I wanted the bags to be good, but not
expensive, because I wanted to feel free to add more bags if I found
situations where I needed something else. And I would not feel
comfortable doing that if I went into ONA land.

The first situation: two cameras or one camera plus an extra lens; and
some stuff, like notebook, rolls of film, batteries etc. I decided to go
with a "Lowpro Nova 170 AW II". I can fit two camera bodies in it, plus
some extra stuff I might need or want while shooting. Or one camera plus
an extra lens or two. It is the camera bag I'm going to use if I'm going
to a family thing or going somewhere during the weekend and might want
to shoot digital and analog.

But I also wanted a travel bag. You know, the kind where I can fit all
my photo stuff, and some stuff I might want while traveling, like water
bottles, some clothes etc. I went with a backpack instead of a bag
because when you reach a certain size they are more elegant than bags. I
went with another Lowpro bag "Hatchback BP 250 AW II". I can fit all of
my stuff in it, and a couple of extra lenses when or if I get them.

I'm very happy with this setup. Because there is enough room for both
the camera stuff and the non camera stuff in each of them. And they are
picket the two typical camera bag scenarios I have.
