---
title: "SD Cards"
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
url: "/2018/03/19/SD/1230"
type: "post"
date: 2018-03-19T01:00:00+01:00
---

I hate SD cards. There is nothing I like about them. There are a million
different models from the same company with some minor differences and
it takes forever to find the best deal.

There is however one thing that I hate more than anything else about SD
cards, and that is that flimsy "lock" button. What it does is to either
allow or disallow writing to it. It is something I assume are coming
from the floppies. Back then it had a purpose, because you don't want to
write over some hilariously expensive software by accident. These days
they are just an annoying thing from the past. The reason I hate them is
that they break, and then you can't write to your SD card. I really hope
that the thing we start using after SD cards don't have them.

Unless you shoot a lot of sports, video or have a camera with really big
files I don't think the write speeds matter that much. But your milage
may vary.

I buy the cheapest possible SD cards I can find. Here is my process, I
go into where I usually buy photo gear and I navigate to the memory
cards section. And then I order by price. Then I start looking for the
two in one packs. They are usually cheaper. And then I include the
cheapest 16GB and the cheapest 32GB card for reference.

Then I take the price and divide it by the total number of GB, and I buy
the cheapest one.

I have used really expensive cards and I have used cheap ones. And I
don't notice any difference in how long they last. There are some
difference in write speeds, but that depends on the camera. But the
difference is not large enough to matter, for me.

If you worry about them failing on you: get a camera with dual SD slots
and "mirror write" (it writes the same image to both).

My system for dealing with SD cards is that I always make sure that I
have enough SD cards to shoot for a whole weekend without having to
import them into my computer. And I replace them as soon as I notice it
takes a long time to import the files. Because when read speeds start to
take a long time I know it will fail soon. So I break it in two and
throw it in the garbage. Just to make sure that if someone thought I
threw it out by a mistake -- don't take it back out of the junk.

When I order something else I always throw in at least two cards or a
two pack of cards. You can never have too many of them. The best price
at the moment is either 16GB or 32GB, but it varies. When I look now it
is the cheapest for 2x 16GB, but that's just because the 32GB one is out
of stock.

Here is the thing I don't get. Why does a 1x16GB / 1x32GB and the exact
same just with two cards cost the same?
