---
title: "Giving Pass a shot."
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
type: "post"
date: 2018-04-09T02:00:00+02:00
---

I have been a 1Password user for a long time now, at least since 2011 or

1.  Their app is solid, their service is solid, and their security is

solid. I also think that they way they deal with problems or potential
problems is great. No bullshit, just honest answers to what's going on
and what they do to deal with it.

I have no complaints about 1Password. Seriously. I don't. Or I wish they
had a proper Linux client. But no complaints regarding their apps and
service.

But I decided to give Pass a shot. It have been one my radar for a while
now. And I blame [@Jack](<https://micro.blog/jack>) for this.

Pass is a unix password manager that is based on a thin wrapper around a
folder with PGP / GPG encrypted plain text files. This means that pass
itself does not deal with syncing or encryption. GPG deals with the
encryption and you can use either GitHub or Dropbox to sync it. Pass
only deals with interacting with GPG and doing stuff like adding new
credentials, editing them, deleting them or searching them. You also
have third party extensions giving you features like one time passwords
or nice flow for updating them.

I'm not going to ditch 1Password over night, or at all. Because if I
cancel my subscription, I'm still going to use it at my company because
using something like 1Password is the least painful way to share
One-time-passwords across teams. And I have had way less hassle dealing
with "Do you have the password for X?" messages on slack after we
started using 1Password.

Pass is cool, and I really enjoy using something that is not proprietary
and very easy to understand. And I could probably write my own "pass" if
I wanted or had to. All you need is your pgp keys and your pass store.
The experience is way worse than what you get from 1Password. You get
way more features, better apps, better browser extensions. Everything is
easier to install on new devices. And so on.

I'm going to check this out over the next few months, and I might cancel
my 1Password subscription if it works well enough.
