---
title: "How I use pen, pencils and paper in 2018."
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
type: "post"
date: 2018-08-24T10:00:00+02:00
---

This is a summary of everything I use, and how I use it.

Pens: - Lamy 2000 (medium nib) - Pilot Vanishing Point (medium nib) -
TWSBI Eco (broad nib) - TWSBI Eco (stub nib) - Bullet Spacepen

Ink: - Pink Iro ink.

Pencils: - Golden Bear.

Notebooks:

-   Field Notes
-   Leuchtturm1917 A5; dotted and lined.

Accessories:

-   Nock.co Hightower
-   Classroom Friendly Sharpener

I use Pilot Iroshizuku inks exclusivley because they look great, dry
fast and have great flow. This gives me an excellent combination of
practicality, writing experience and awesome looking ink.

There is always one Field Notes in one of my pockets, always with my
tiny Spacepen. And I keep my Leuchtturm1917 notebooks in my computer
bag. The lined one are for journaling and writing, and the other one are
for tasks and notes. In my Hightower pen case I always have some spare
Field Notes, and two fountain pens: Lamy 2000 and Pilot Vanishing Point.
And there are usually a few spare pencils in my computer bag. My TWSBI
Eco's are at my desk at home.

The Field Notes are used for capture on the go, or for lists I need to
reference on the go.

I usually use pencils when I take short notes, like in meetings or while
working. But I always prefer to use a fountain pen when I'm writing more
than a few lines at a time. Why? Most of my fountain pens can survive me
writing for as long as I can go before my hand get tired without running
out of ink. A pencil could maybe last me for 3 pages(A5) per freshly
sharpened point.

I used to carry a sharpener, and one pencil plus a few spares. Since I
got my Classroom Friendly I have moved over to carrying a pencilcase
with a lot of sharpened pencils(between 12 and 24). And I just use them
and take out those who need sharpening. And re-sharpen them a few times
a week.
