---
title: "Forms"
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
url: "/2018/01/05/Forms/950"
type: "post"
date: 2018-01-05T01:00:00+01:00
---

Building forms using React can be a little bit of a hassle until you get
used to it. Some use thrid party tools to make it less cumbersome. I
personally think that the default is good enough.

The way you build forms is to have a state element for each "thing" in
your form, and then you need to write updater methods and methods to
deal with every other event you need to deal with.

It isn't difficult, but there are a few stumbling blocks along the way.
D not write your code as anyonymous code, write them as functions either
arrow or regular in your component class, because it will slow down the
rendering. I personally use arrow functions to deal with the rendering,
because I don't need to bind them.

You could of course do something like this

const update (key) => { return (e) => { let o = o[[][key]] =
e.target.value this.setState(o) } }

But I suspect it will be more code than the usual updater

updateUsername = e => this.setState(value: e.target.value)

It depends on how much other stuff, if any, you need to do.

There are some libraries out there that claims they make it easier. I
personally have not seen anything that I think is worth the hassle.

Building forms with react can be a lot of extra code. And you need state
for each one, and a updater for each one. But you have full control of
what's going on with each form element. And I personally think it is far
easier to debug forms using react than some other systems I've used
where they try to be smart.
