---
title: "Redux"
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
type: "post"
date: 2018-01-09T01:00:00+01:00
---

Okay. So redux is a very simple solution to manage state. It has a few
different parts, but none of them are difficult to understand, and it is
very easy to work with. I don't think I ever see any bugs in that part
of my code bases.

Let's begin with the reducer. A redux setup consists of one or more
reducers. A reducer is a function, plus the inital state. The reducer
function is usually a large or small switch / case. You are free to
write it exactly how you like, but it has to return a new version of
your state, and it recieves a object as input.

The typical way to do it is to use a TYPE key in the object to tell what
kind of change it is, and then some additional data, if needed.

Important: input to a reducer is a pure object, and the output is a pure
object.

Then you have your actions, this is the stuff inside the switch / case.

Then you have action-creators. These are functions that you use, and the
result is that an action is invoked on the reducer. For example: load
data from backend, and then add that data to the store.

This is the important part. You create a redux store, with one or more
reducers. This is a instance of your store. Then you can use the
dispatch method on that store object to send actions to it, or to get
the current state.

You can either use it directly, but that would be a little bit
"cumbersome" using React. What most people are doing is to create the
store, and then add it to the Provider component in React-Redux. And
then use connect.

The way this works is that Provider add your store as a context, and
then the connect function, component or what ever use it, and you first
run it through a function where you chose what properties from the state
you need, and then you run the function that returns with your component
as a argument. It can also map any methods to dispatch.

Or, if you don't want to do that, the dispatch method will be available
as a prop on all component you run through connect.

A few implementation tips at the end. Don't connect props you don't
need, and only connect them where they are needed. There is no need for
passing stuff down through long component structures with Redux. And
make multiple smaller reducers rather than a few large ones. One patter
I'm a huge fan of is to use a higher order function to make a re-usable
reducer for everything related to lists, with the redux part being
re-usable and the matching and talking with backend functions as params.

Remember, you can actually test your reducers without hooking it up to
redux, since it's just a plain javascript function.@

The next post will be redux example.
