---
title: "The Price of Ink"
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
type: "post"
date: 2018-10-08T10:00:00+02:00
---

You can find cheap ink, and expensive inkk. More expensive bottles are
sometimes larger, but other times not. The price range of inks, I'm
talking about fountain pen inks by the way, vary from around $5 to a
little bit under $40. The cheapest from JetPens is about $0,55 per ML
while $0,74.

If you compare the price of ink to the other part of this that you
actually use up - paper. Then you will realise that ink is not that
expensive. When I wrote a lot with and exclusivly with fountain pens, I
used maybe close to three 50 ml bottles a year, but I think most people
would struggle with using one a year. I don't know the number, but
imagine how many notebooks of your choice you need to buy to use all of
that ink.

If you use Pilot Iroshizuku inks and Leuchtturm1917 notebooks, you spend
about the same per bottle of ink that you spend on a A5 notebook, but I
think you need at least 20 notebooks if not more to use all of that ink.

I get that some people don't have that much disposable inkcome, and I
get that those of you that this applies to have some different
priorities, but I personally went with Pilot Iroshizuku inks even when I
was on a tight budget because I enjoyed using it so much more than
cheaper inks. If you like me have some disposable income to use on this
hobby, I think there are much better places to how much money you spend
than inks. Because you get a bottle and it lasts forever. Notebooks are
a place where you can save a lot of money. And not buying pens are
another.
