---
title: "Being left handed."
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
type: "post"
date: 2018-01-22T01:00:00+01:00
---

As a white straight cis male working I don't have that much experience
that the system are working against me; and I don't experience much
fill-in-your-ism-of-choice-here.

But there is one area where I really can feel it. I'm left handed. There
are some products more than others that seems to be designed in a way
where they have made a mathematical model for the dead center for normal
or the bullseye of normal. And then they have designed a product to
serve them, and to only test it on people who qualify as normal.

There are a few products I always bring up when I complain about this,
the Vanishing Point or the Lamy Safari; but you can also spot some of
the same problems if you look at for example the nibs available for the
Lamy 2000.

The problem with the Lamy Safari, and all the other "cheaper" Lamy pens
is that the grip section is molded, and it doesn't work that great when
the way you hold the pen is opposite of "Normal man". While the problem
with the Vanishing Point is just that the clip becomes a little bit "in
the way" if you are left handed; the difference is that, if you are
right handed it will end up between your thumb and your index finger;
while for us lefties it ends up between your index finger and middle
finger.

Both of these problems could be solved relatively easy; you just make a
"reversed" version. The problem with the Lamy 2000 nibs are that the
"Oblique" nibs don't come in a lefty version, and good luck writing with
those left handed.

I'm pretty sure they don't do this to be assholes or anything like this.
I just think that they didn't even consider testing it on left handed
people before putting it out there.

I just wish that more companies did a better job to make sure their
products either work for everyone or that it is a version that works for
everyone.

Because you have two options, either you design stuff in way where they
are fully functional no matter what hand you write with. Or you design
stuff in a way where you need separate models for left handed and right
handed. The key is that you either design stuff to be universal or you
have models for both groups.
