---
title: "iPhone 8 Plus"
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
url: "/2018/02/02/iPhone/1051"
type: "post"
date: 2018-02-02T01:00:00+01:00
---

I went with the iPhone 8 Plus instead of the iPhone X.

The main reason was that my iPhone 6S died of water damage. It's kind of
interesting to look as the screen starts to look more and more like a
ghost before it dies completely.

I went for the Space Grey iPhone 8 Plus, with 64GB of storage. It's
funny how the default iPhone storage have increased much faster than my
storage needs. Because I used to have to go for the mid tier (32GB) to
have the least storage to be comfortable. I would probably prefer 128,
but 64 was the only thing that was in stock.

The reason "being in stock" is very important to me is that everything
is on my phone. My train season ticket is in an app, and I use my phone
to approve all two factor(and also signing) in my bank.

And yes, podcasts.

In other words, getting something as fast as possible was important.

Like I did with my 6S, I went with an Apple Case; an red one. I had two
of them for my 6S. First a silicone one before it broke and then a
leather case for the remainder of its life. They are both awesome. The
silicone feels better, but is a little bit harder to take in and out of
your pocket. While the leather is a little bit more slippery, and is
therefore easier to take in and out of the pocket.

To be clear, it's not difficult to pocket the silicone and the leather
isn't that slippery. But there is a minor difference.

This phone feels more or less the same as my old one, just a little bit
better. With a few minor differences.

I do love having two lenses. One wide and one normal; no Apple it isn't
a portrait lens. It's like having a 28mm and a 50mm.

The USN-C fast charging is fantastic. You basically cut the charging
time in half, if you use a USB-C cable and a MacBook Pro brick.

I don't have a huge problem with the lack headphone jack. The UX of
using a bluetooth headset is better anyways, because you don't have to
unplug your headset to not use if, while for example answering the
phone. But it is annoying to not being able to charge your phone, while
listening to stuff when you are using a cable headset.
