---
title: "A good inkwell?"
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
type: "post"
date: 2018-01-29T01:00:00+01:00
---

I've had this on my mind for a few months now, and things that stay that
way for a very long time are usually in the "not the worst thing in the
world" camp.

The kind of bottle you get with your ink varies a lot, based on a few
different factors; usually the price and the amount of ink. For example
Iroshizuku have fantastic bottles, while Diamine have bad bottles and
Noodlers aren't the best, but not the best either.

There are a few different things I think are important when you are
judging a bottle; but above everything there is two things that are the
most important. How easy is it to fill your pens when it starts to run
low? Is the opening large enough to fit any pen?

On one side is it really dumb to spend a significant amount of money on
designing and producing a glorified container. You're just going to use
most of the ink before you throw it out. But on the other side is
designing a good one important for the experience of using the ink, and
you get to use more of it if it is good.

On the other side would a fancy bottle make the product more expensive.
But the added cost will be lower per ml for larger bottles.

Would it be worth it to buy a inkwell that is designed to make it easy
to use as much as possible of the ink? Then the whole "how good is the
ink bottle debate" is void. I actually think I would. But I might
consider re-using some of my Iroshizuku bottles until I find something I
like.
