---
title: "Having all the lenses I need."
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
url: "/2018/07/31/Having/1484"
type: "post"
date: 2018-07-31T02:00:00+02:00
---

Less than a year after I got this camera, I finally have all the stuff I
"need". While there are still some stuff that I would like to have in
addition to what I have, I now feel like I have everything I need.

It would be nice to have a zoom, or to have something wider than a 23,
and something longer than 50. But still, if I bring my X-Pro and three
primes + plus my Fish eye I have all I need: really fucking wide, kind
of wide, normal and kind of long. And my favourite thing about the
lenses (except the fish eye) is that they are all usable as my only
lens, even though they may not always be the ideal.

I don't want to add any huge lenses to my kit, because I know myself
well enough to say that I would not bring them with me much, if at all.
But I would totally love it if Fuji came out with a 16mm f2 and a fast
and compact prime between 70-90mm.

Here is the thing, I bring my cameras everywhere. My X-Pro 2 is on my
laptop bag with some kind of lens every single day I go to work. And I
have a dog. Having a huge lens on my camera would mean that I did not
bring it as often with me to work, if at all. And having someting so big
that I could not shoot one handed would mean that I could not use that
combo when I walk my dog. Shooting while talking the dog is a large
portion of my shooting.

When I don't shoot while walking my dog, I do street shooting or shoot
while I hang out with my girlfriend, and in either situation I want as
little attention as possible. And walking around with a huge lens brings
a lot of attention.

Like I have written many times before: I want the fastest lens I can get
that is still light and has fast auto focus. You might not need fast
auto focus or light, and should make your own choices based on what your
needs are. # Burst shooting on the X-Pro 2.

I'm a burst shooter, and I have been for as long as I can remember.

That doesn't mean I end up with 70 pictures of every "scene" I shoot.
That could be the case if you use the fastest burst mode on the X-Pro 2.
Instead I use the slower one. And that works exactly how I want it to
be. It is slow enough to control exactly how many frames you want. The
problem with some of the faster burst mode is that you get at least
three or four frames before you get a chance to lift your finger.

I always shoot more than one image of each thing, because I hate not
having something usable. And using a burst mode just makes it easier. My
current fear is that the burst modes will become so fast that they
aren't really useful for how I like to use them. Because I'd hate to
have to go through like 15 pictures instead of four.
