---
title: "Web Development in 2018"
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
type: "post"
date: 2018-03-05T01:00:00+01:00
---

Web Development is in a weird place for me at the moment. The choices
for front end development are pretty solid. Frameworks or libraries like
React, Vue, Ember and Angular are pretty solid; I personally prefer
React, but all of them are good. Backend development on the other hand
is in a weird place for me. I have used both Django and .NET a lot in
the past. But neither of them are what I want in 2018 or 2017 for that
matter.

The good thing about Django is that everything is easy to do and you get
all the tools you need to build a database driven, fully tested RESTful
JSON API out of the box. And you get the same with .NET Core. What I
don't like about both of them is that there are a little bit too much
"magic" in other words stuff that the frameworks just does. The thing I
don't like about Django or Python is the lack of a solid type system,
which makes the tests more verbose than needed and too much validation
code. And C# and .NET have gone a long way, but there are still too many
places where you need to define full classes to do simple things.

I spent a lot of time last year to see if Node + Express was what I
wanted. And the answer is not quite. The reason is that I could come up
with a setup that is almost there, but the type system is still too far
away from what I want.

The next thing I started to check out was F#, Chicken Scheme and Guile.
But none of them had all the stuff I wanted.

What I want is either a framework or a set of libraries I can configure
to Database Migrations, define database tables in code (ORM), write
RESTful API's, manage authentication etc. And I want the language to
have a good type system, support functional programming well and most
important be fun to use.

The thing I mean when I say "good type system" is to define what kind of
parameters to I expect to get of what type over URL parameters, GET
Parameters and BODY data. Ideally those who are required and not
required.

What I have decided to use for now is Clojure. It is a LISP, which I
love. And I think everything is just a question of setting everything up
to work like I want to. My "starter" project is on
[GitHub](https://github.com/hjertnes/clojure-starter) but it is far
from done.
