---
title: "Travel mugs"
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
type: "post"
date: 2018-05-04T02:00:00+02:00
---

I'm a travel mug person. They have been a regular part of the stuff I
bring with me outside the house for a very long time. The reason is that
I like to drink coffee on my way to work. No matter if it is five
minutes or 30.

My view is that most if not all travel mugs suck. You have those that
are built well and then you have the rest. Those who are built well are
expensive, but they don't leak or anything like that. But they don't
last forever. The way most of the good ones work is that they try to
make sure that the temperature of the coffee remains as close to what it
was when you put it into the cup as long as possible.

I'm not a huge fan of steaming hot coffee. I like the cold enough to
drink it without having to worry too much about burning my lips off. The
way I solve this is by putting a few ice cubes in my cup after brewing
pour over straight into my travel mug.

Then you have the lid. I don't think the lid problem have been solved
yet. Because it so easy to burn yourself if the coffee in your mug is
too hot. The reason is that the angle your are pouring versus how much
coffee are coming is off compared to a regular cup or a mug. The
typical: nothin nothing and then way too much. What I would love to see,
even though I have no idea how it would work, is a dual compartment cup,
one upper compartment where you could leave some coffee to cool off and
then drink it. Again no idea how it would work.

I use a Contigo mug at the moment. It uses a auto seal system, where you
have to press while drinking. It work well enough. But you need to make
sure to cool the coffee off in advance. I'll probably get another one
the next time I'm buying a mug. Most good travel mugs either come as one
you need to open and close or some kind of "press to unlock" system. I
prefer the latter.
