---
title: "Programming languages in 2018"
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
type: "post"
date: 2018-03-08T01:00:00+01:00
---

What are the programming languages I'm interested in, or are using in

1.

The ones I know and are using regularly, if not daily are: Python,
Swift, JavaScript, C#, SQL, LISP and Shell scripting.

Python, Node and C# are my go to languages when I'm going to write a
backend. What I'm going with depends on a number of factors. But I
mostly go with Python and Django for personal stuff, because I know it
so well and I think it is a lot of fun to work with. I often go with
Node if I'm going to write something small and single purpose, because
of how small and fast it is. And I think C# and .NET Core is a great
option when you want the safety of a strong type system.

For basic scripting my go to tools bare shell scripting and Python. I
use plain shell scripting when I just want to build an abstraction for
some complex commands or series of commands, and I got with Python for
anything more complex.

I'm digging more and more into Swift as I'm getting serious about native
App Development again. I like it a lot. And I enjoy it way more than I
ever did with Objective-C. The strong type system makes it a lot easier
to catch stuff under development time. But I'm not a huge fan of Xcode.

Knowing how to use plain SQL is the smartest thing I ever did. It was
the second real programming thing I learnt, after PHP. It is a fantastic
tool to have in your tool belt for when you need to run plain sql to fix
stuff, read stuff straight out of the database or to clean stuff up. Or
even if you don't want to introduce a ORM to your project.

LISP. I have developed a real interest in LISP and Scheme over the last
year and a half. And I love how elegant and fun it is. I use it all the
time to extend Emacs / Spacemacs.

Javascript. I still enjoy using JavaScript, especially on the front end.
I think Javascript is the perfect language for anything user interface.
But I think we need a "Django moment" or "Ruby on Rails moment" for it
to really take off on the backend.

What are the languages I'm going to look into in 2018:

-   ReasonML. I'm going to play around with this on some small front end
    projects. And I might introduce it at work if I like what I see.

-   LISP. I'm probably going to play a lot more with emacs lisp and
    chicken scheme. Because the elegance is too much fun

-   If I find the time I'm also going to take a look at GoLang
