---
title: "Structure"
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
url: "/2018/01/16/Structure/979"
type: "post"
date: 2018-01-16T01:00:00+01:00
---

A few words on structuring your react app. Don't think too much about
structure, keep it as flat as possible, for as long as possible. Use
redux to make your state sane, and use higher order components to limit
code duplication. But keep one component per file.

I'm a fan of structuring stuff when it hurts to not do it. Then I would
look into making modules out of the stuff that is just used one place.

Let's say you have a route where you add and edit blog posts; have all
the stuff that is just used there in a folder, and then have the main
component you use in the Editor in the moduleFolderName/index.js.

React won't solve any of your problems with sturcturing your code base,
but neither will anything else.

But one thing that is more imporant than most is to use eslint. Base it
on a sane set of configurations like the airbnb one and modify it to fit
your requirements. Linting is a good way to keep your codebase sane and
a good way to filter out some stuff.

It won't replace automated testing or proptypes but is a important
addtion.

One last thing I personally think is important to think about when you
have a large app, try move everything that is used multiple places to a
single place. And then try to make sure that each module in your
component structure never import outside of it's own folder, except for
state and common. I also always start with the following structure:
state(everything related to redux), utils(javascript code) and
components(react code).
