---
title: "How to get into programming."
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
type: "post"
date: 2018-03-05T01:00:00+01:00
---

The "How do I get into programming?" questions is one of the hardest
things to answer. Or I do at least think it is. This is because being
good at programming is about having experience doing it and having the
drive to always looking for better ways of doing everything. Including
those things you didn't know was a problem, and of course the things you
think are annoying.

The way I got into programming, and the way everyone I know who know how
to code got into it was by doing. They had something they wanted to
make, and they figured out how to do it. I started with web development.
First I wanted to add a visit counter to my web sites, then I figured
out how to make it only count unique visitors within a timeframe. Before
I moved on to implementing a full CMS driven by PHP and MySQL.

The best way to learn how to code is to start learning about the
technology you would like to make it in. If you want it to be a iOS app
you should start with Swift and Xcode and if web devvelopment is your
thing I would start with HTML and CSS, before moving over to JavaScript
and server side technology. I would start with either Django or Ruby On
Rails because they are very easy to get started with and almost
everything you want is included. And React or Vue are good places to
start for when you want to do Web App Development.

How you learn the basics are up to you. Some people like to watch video
lessons, while others like a more interactive approach and I prefer
books and blog posts. How you do it is up to you, but I would encourage
you to try different methods and stick with what works for you.

And the final step to get started is to find a project. If you are doing
a web development, making a custom CMS is a good place to start. Not
because you'll get the most amazing thing every. But just because you
will learn a lot from doing it. Everything from server side rendering on
what people will see and more advanced Web App development on the admin
side of it.

A todo app is a good place to start, if you are doing an native app; but
also works if you are doing a web app.

Then I would encourage you to make what every you are making as good as
you have the time for. And always improve everything as you learn new
stuff. A solid project that shows how you work and what you can do is
always useful when you are going to apply for a job.

There will be a lot of "abstractions" no matter what kind of software
development you get into. They are a way to make more complicated or
time consuming tasks easier to work with. The good thing about them is
that you don't need to know all the details when you start out. The bad
thing is that you need to learn more things. But I would still take the
time to learn to theory behind them as you get more experience.

If you decide that you would like to make a living as a developer then I
would start by looking at what kind of languages, frameworks and
technology are popular in your area. And the best way to do that is by
looking a job listings. And then start learning that. The next step is
to have some code you can share with potential employers when you apply
for a job. The closer the code is to what they use the better it is. It
is just a way to show them that you actually know how to do the job.
Because the biggest nightmare when we hire is to get someone who don't
know how to code.
