---
title: "Hugo"
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
url: "/2018/02/28/Hugo/1163"
type: "post"
date: 2018-02-28T01:00:00+01:00
---

I decided to finally do the inevitable after I got out of the hospital:
migrating all of my sites over to Hugo. There are many good reasons for
using WordPress, and it is a reason for 30% of the web or something
crazy like that runs on it. But it felt like I only used it because it
worked with MarsEdit.

Hugo is like Jekyll and Pelican a Static Website Generator. This means
that you build all the resources and upload them instead of generating
output based on requests.

There are good and bad sides to both. The Hugo approach is less dynamic,
while the latter is more dynamic. Some people want or need that dynamic
nature of a database driven CMS like WordPress. While others like me are
more than happy with something a little bit simpler.

But I'm cheating. Because I have added two servers or backends to my
Hugo sites. Or some of them. To enable posting from apps.

I love posting from the Micro.blog apps on both OS X and iOS, which lead
me to implementing a simple MicroPub server for it. And I love using
MarsEdit, and that lead me to starting to implement a WordPress XML-RPC
compliant API for Hugo (or anything like it).

The reason I went with Hugo over Jekyll or Pelican is simple:

-   I hate Ruby with passion

-   I enjoy Python, but for some reason don't like Pelican.

-   Hugo is written in Go and is ridiculously fast.

-   Hugo supports scheduling posts (which was one of the reasons I dumped
    Jekyll the last time, and because it was _slow_).

I'm enjoying using Hugo this far. The awesome thing about Hugo is that
it is really easy to make tools that make stuff easier, because you are
just dealing with files. And page loads are very fast. The best thing
however is not having to deal with WordPress updates.

The next thing is to start looking into making my own templates for some
of my sites. And to complete my XML-RPC server.

Is it better than WordPress? For some people. But I didn't start to
enjoy using Hugo before I got up a proper XML-RPC server so that I could
use it with MarsEdit.
