---
title: "Fujifilm 35mm f2 versus 50mm f2"
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
url: "/2018/03/12/Fujifilm/1214"
type: "post"
date: 2018-03-12T01:00:00+01:00
---

I own both the 35mm f2 and the 50mm f2 for my X-Pro 2, and I plan on
buying the 23mm as well as a zoom, probably the 18-135.

The reasons I want both fast primes to cover some of the more commonly
used focal lengths is about convenience. I love having a fast enough
zoom, with a wide range when traveling or attending family stuff. The
18-135 seems like the best option in the current Fuji lineup because I
most of them either start to long or stop too short. I actually love
getting full frame 24-70 zooms and putting them on crop cameras for this
reason. You get something like a 38-112 (on Canon). Everything from a
little bit wide to a excellent portrait lens.

Back to the 18-135. It is not the fastest, but it has a excellent
optical image stabilisation system, which more than makes up for the
slower aperture on it.

The reason I want to have fast primes to cover some of the more common
focal lengths is because they are faster and much lighter. A 23mm is a
excellent walking around lens, and for family stuff because you can
capture whole groups without having to step too far away. I love the
35mm for my "default" lens because it is great for shooting more or less
everything, without being too long for portraits (something I think the
23mm is). And I love the 50mm for shooting portraits.

Fuji often have faster versions of their F2 lenses, like the 56 f1.2 and
there are 1.2 or 1.4 versions of the 23 and 35. But I think the F2
lenses are better, at least for me. Because they are lighter, fast
enough, and the lower weight means, less glass, which means faster auto
focus.

The zoom on the other hand is something I want to use when I know that I
will use many different focal lengths, for example while traveling or a
family gatherings. Or when I want to get closer without moving: in other
words family stuff.

I could go for the 16-55 f2.8, but I think it ends a little bit too
short, and all the zooms that start at 50 start a little bit too long to
make sense. That leaves me with the 18-135. It looks like a great
compromise between versatility and weight. A f2.8 version of it would be
way too heavy and expensive.
