---
title: "The subscription software rant."
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
type: "post"
date: 2018-04-13T02:00:00+02:00
---

Here is the thing. I don't mind paying for subscriptions, I prefer not
to, but I don't mind it. Because they are way less annoying than having
buy a new one over X years. For example, having a subscription to
Overcast is way better than having to buy a new version of it every
year. Paying something like $20 USD every year instead of a new $3 app
every third year also means that a developer could make more or less the
same amount of money on 1/7th of the users.

But I don't think subscriptions is the solution for everyone and for
everything. There are many apps I have stopped using because of their
subscription model. This does not mean that they are bad or anything
like that, it just means that it is not for everyone.

If I am going to pay a subscription for your app it will always be
because it is something I use enough for it to be worth it. And you
either have to do it much better or solve a bunch of other problems for
me. I did for example use TextExpander up until they went for a
subscription model. I did not use it a lot, but I used it some, and I
decided to move over to Alfred's snippets feature instead because I did
not use any of the advanced Text Expander features.

An excellent example of a subscription that saves me money is my
Lightroom CC subscription. The cost of paying monthly compared to buying
a new Lightroom license with every release(when I started my
subscription) was more or less the same. Then it became a little bit
more expensive when the new Lightroom came out last year. Most of the
increase in price for me was because I wanted more storage. But because
all of my photos now are in the cloud, I have been able to get rid of my
Dropbox subscription ($100 a year) and decreased my AWS Glacier bill by
around $100 a year. Because I used to have backups in Dropbox(and still
had some old ones), and I was backing my raw files up to AWS using Arq.

I don't need more than one cloud backup, but I have multiple local
copies of them though.

I don't have a lot of software or service subscriptions left. One of
them are 1Password. And I might get rid of it, because Pass might solve
most of what I used 1Password for. Here is the thing: I might go for
something "worse", if it still does what I need. Many apps have a lot of
features, and they are give you greater value the more of them you use.
