---
title: "A digital Leica."
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
url: "/2018/02/09/A/1091"
type: "post"
date: 2018-02-09T01:00:00+01:00
---

Leica cameras and optics are very expensive. A used Leica M6 and a used
Leica lens is not far from as expensive as a Fujifilm X-Pro 2 with a
35mm F2. And they have always been expensive cameras. But you can see
and feel the price when you use one.

The great thing about analog Leica cameras and in most analog cameras
without auto focus, auto exposure, auto aperture and all of the fancy
functionality that many photographers are used to today is that there
aren't that much that can break. It might have a battery, but that is
only used for metering, if it has a built in one. And that battery is a
cheap standard battery you can get almost everywhere. The batteries used
in my Nikon FM cost $8 for a 10 pack at Amazon. And they last forever.

I changed the batteries on mine yesterday, and I had used them for a
year and a half; the only reason I had to change them was that I forgot
to push the film advance lever all the way in.

What I love about film cameras is that you can pick up any camera(in
this example a 35mm one) and take advantage of modern film technology;
that includes the very first 35mm cameras produced as early as 1905.

That would be like using a 5D Mark 1 with a full frame sensor released
in about 100 years. The battery technology used in most analog cameras
aren't that old. But the one I use in mine are from the 70s.

If I would want to invest in a digital Leica like the M10, it would cost
me around $10000 (with a 50mm Summicron, while a Fujifilm X-Pro 2 with a
35mm F2 would be around $2000. In other words, I could buy three
generations of X-Pro 2's for the same amount of money. And a Leica M10
is not that much better, and if it is better than the X-Pro 2 at all is
a discussion by itself.

The reason a Leica film camera except for the M7, is worth the money is
that you can use it for like forever. Even if the button cell battery
goes out of production. Because you don't need the meter for the camera
to work. The only thing you need is rolls of 35mm film. I also think
Leica will service more or less any Leica camera produced.

There are a few things Leica would have to figure out before I would
even consider buying a digital M. If I'm going to spend that amount of
money one any kind of camera it had to something I could use for the
rest of my life, without feeling like I was using a outdated camera. If
I bought a Leica M3 in 1954 it would still be a awesome camera (if taken
proper care of).

To make a camera with that kind of longevity is not that difficult when
it comes to film cameras, because the film is the sensor, and the rest
is about betting on the right company and how well it's built. Leica
know how to build stuff that last. But in order for a digital camera to
work that well they would also have to make it possible to change and
upgrade the sensor. And of course batteries that was standard, and would
be available even if Leica went under.

I would also prefer it if that kind of camera much more minimal than the
current M10; more like a M-D.
