---
title: "Where I buy stationary in 2018."
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
type: "post"
date: 2018-09-03T10:00:00+02:00
---

Historically I have been buying from Goulet and JetPens. The reason is
simple, they had the most stuff, with the most affordable overall
pricing.

Back when I got into this crap in 2013, there was not anyone selling
that kind of stuff in Norway. And the companies in Europe ended up being
as expensive and same shipping times as the American ones after
shipping, customs etc.

So I just went for the ones that had the most stuff. And the best
websites. I tried to do most of my shopping at Goulet, because I love
how they are doing everything.

Then about a year and a half ago I was made aware of a Norwegian site
selling the kind of stuff I loved. So I wrote a blog post, got an
e-mail. And have been doing most of my shopping there since then.

I have also gotten some stuff for free, for the purpose of revewing them
or gotten nice discounts.

These days I try to do all my shopping at Tudos. Because I want to
support them as much as possible. And because everything is simpler when
they are inside Norway. Cheaper shipping and no import / customs fees.

Even though they might be more expensive when you compare product A and
B; the result are much closer the identical when you look at how it
looks by the time you get the product.

And it is so nice to not having to plan weeks in advnace to make sure
you always have inks and notebooks.

In other words, I get stuff from Tudos if they can sell it to me. And
the little I need that they can't get me are mostly bought from
Pencils.com.
