---
title: "Field Notes Bellory Cover"
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
type: "post"
date: 2018-11-08T09:00:00+01:00
---

This have taken a really long time. I think I started to look for a
cover for my Field Notes the day after I got my first pack in May or
June 2013. I came from using some really thick hardover Moleskine pocket
sized notebooks. And even though Field Notes was a lot better in many
ways, especially paper quality and the smaller page number made them
much more portable, there was something about the hardcover I really
missed. Mainly that I new they would not fall apart, and that I did not
rely as much on having a desk to write.

Over these five and half years, I have looked at more or less every
single cover that fits Field Notes at least once. But I never pulled the
trigger. I'm not sure why, but I never did it.

I finally did so a while back. And I went for the Belroy Field Notes
cover. I'm really happy with it this far. It protects my Field Notes,
and adds additional stiffness, without a lot of extra bulk. Also, the
cover makes it really easy to carry a small pen or a pencil in the spin.
One additional feature the Belroy has is two pockets on one side made to
let you carry either Credit Cards or Index Cards.

I regret not getting this thing before, but I really like this thing.
And as a bonus the cover protects my pencil a little bit, something that
means I break way less pencilpoints each week.

If you should get this cover or not depends, I really like it because I
can use this instead of a FN Cover plus the Talluah. But you might want
to get something a little bit different if you don't want to carry Index
Cards.
