---
title: "Redux Example"
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
url: "/2018/01/10/Redux/957"
type: "post"
date: 2018-01-10T01:00:00+01:00
---

A Redux Store consists of a few different parts. You always have a
**single** store, that uses either a single Reducer or Multiple Reducers
(through Redux's CombineReducers method). And you dispatch actions to
your reducers. (You also have the initial state for each reducer, that
is the default values)

-   Store = is like an instance of a class. It contains the actual data.

-   A reducer takes the current state + an action, applies it to the state
    and returns the new state.

<div class="HTML">
  <div></div>

<script src="<https://gist.github.com/hjertnes/4bf5d6f3e163ad2f928ae49ba9161b1c.js>"></script>

</div>

If you look in the gist above you see everything you need to set up a
basic redux setup. You can make it how simple or complex you want to. I
personally just make multiple reducers, and action-creator methods that
update them.

The awesome thing about redux is that it isn't a "react thing". This
means that you could use the same state layer with any front end library
or framework.

If you want to use it with react then you need two things from the the
react-redux package: Provider and Connect.

You place the around the JSX code in your ReactDOM render() method in
your entry point. And then you use the connect() method to map functions
and state elements to your components.

You map state elements to your components so that what is in redux are
passed as props to your components, and you map your action creators to
your component through connect so that the action creators have access
to your store's dispatch method.

Something like this:

<div class="HTML">
  <div></div>

<script src="<https://gist.github.com/hjertnes/09ac895601dd04b97a7dbe1e7e3096b2.js>"></script>

</div>

As usual, the code above is working, but you need to add some imports
etc to have a working example.
