---
title: "Immutable.js"
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
url: "/2018/02/19/Immutable/1118"
type: "post"
date: 2018-02-19T01:00:00+01:00
---

There are some obvious advantages to using immutable data types. I
personally think it is much easier to understand immutable code, and
much easier to understand. The reason is that you replace data, and you
omit the problem of two methods in a class trying to mutate the same
thing. For example by incrementing a int twice or changing a boolean to
the opposite twice.

The reason you can avoid this problem with a immutable data type is that
you would instead of changing the data, send the initial data set to the
function, make a copy and then return the mutated copy, that you replace
the original data with.

Knowing that the result is always input + the code, and know that
something else can't be doing something weird in the background makes
many thing a lot easier.

[Immutable.js](https://facebook.github.io/immutable-js/) is one way to
do Immutable data structures in JavaScript. You need a third party
library because JavaScript don't have real immutable data structures as
a part of the language. I'm not using Immutable.js at the moment, but I
have tested it out to a great extent in the past. And there are many
great things about it. For example to test if two objects are the same
by doing obj1 `=` obj2 is awesome.

But I have decided to not use it in any of my projects. Not because it's
bad or anything like that, but because I think it requires a little bit
too much work. You have to use the Immutable Map and List objects
instead of the native JavaScript ones. And you need to convert stuff
between the native and immutable types all the time.

I agree on the basic premise. But I would have preferred something like
a babel plugin, that let me use Immutable data structures without having
to use a separate API.
