---
title: "What makes a good “street” lens"
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
url: "/2018/02/26/What/1149"
type: "post"
date: 2018-02-26T01:00:00+01:00
---

I don't think there are much "right" and "wrong" when it comes to focal
lengths for shooting street. Because it all depends on your personal
taste and what kind of pictures you want make.

But the standard focal lengths for street are (on a 35mm / full frame)
28mm, 35mm and 50mm. And something close to a 85mm is popular for street
portraits.

The creepiness is relative to the focal length. And I personally think
that zoom lenses with a very long range is kind of "not cool". But I
don't think something like a 10-24 or a 24-70 is a problem from a
creepiness perspective.

But there are few things I think is important when you are picking a
lens to use in street photography. Don't get me wrong, you can use
anything.

I would get a small and light prime, with fast auto focus. Because stuff
happens fast, and lenses that use a long time to focus or fiddle with
zooming is the kind of thing that could cause you to loose a lot of
shots.

You want fast auto focus, because good pictures come and go faster than
you can shoot most of the time. The lens should be light and small
because it is a pain in the ass to walk around with a huge lens for a
long periods, and people notice huge lenses way more than a small prime.

A manual lens with a focus scale is also a good option. This means a
lens where you see meters and feet on the focusing ring. When I do
street shooting with my Nikon FM, I usually focus to a certain distance
and work accordingly. Then you only walk around and change the shutter
speed.

My personal preference on Fuji systems is to use their line of F2
lenses. Because they are small, great quality and have fast auto focus.
I usually set them to F8, when there is enough light, and then step down
whole steps until I have a combo that works.

The slowest shutter speed you can use, depends on many different things.
It depends on if you have any kind of image stabilisation in your camera
or lens. And it depends on how steady your hands are. But also on the
camera. For example, analog or up to around 16 mega pixels, no problem
using a 1/60th of a second. But I try to not go under 1/100th on my
X-Pro 2 with a 24MP sensor, because I takes way less to have a blurry
picture.

More pixels aren't always better.
