---
title: "Webpack"
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
url: "/2018/04/25/Webpack/1330"
type: "post"
date: 2018-04-25T02:00:00+02:00
---

Some developers think that you should write code that can run in any
browser. While others take full advantage of tools like Webpack to make
it easier to build complex applications.

The reason this is even a discussion is that you can write code without
any tools that performs well in the browser. But it is much harder to do
so without any extra tools. Because we as developers like to split stuff
up into multiple files to make it easier to manage the code. But when
you do that it takes longer to download them. This is why we started to
use various different tools to kind of take all our css and combine them
into one file, all of or images and combine them into one file and all
of our javascript and combine them into one file.

But then you meet another problem. Because a lot of tiny files takes
much longer to load than a few big ones. But three huge files also takes
longer time to load than some smaller. What you want it the perfect
balance between total file size and how many files you can download at
once and take full advantage of the bandwidth. And if you configure
stuff correctly you'll only download the updated parts when you update
your app.

For example one JavaScript file of 10MB takes longer than 40 files at
250kB; but one file of 10MB takes shorter time to download than 2000
tiny files.

But there is one thing you should keep your eye one when you use a tool
like Webpack and that is huge node modules. Because some modules from
NPM may be responsible for a very large portion of the total size of the
output. Just google for Webpack Bundle Analyzer to find a recent one.
And start digging. The way I tackle this is to identify large modules
and then I figure out if I can solve it by only importing select methods
or I try to find smaller replacements. And remember to split CSS out as
their own files.
