---
title: "Clojure"
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
url: "/2018/08/17/clojure/1533"
type: "post"
date: 2018-08-17T10:00:00+02:00
---

I have kind of been absessed with Clojure over the last few months. And
it looks like this will be my next thing. The languages I have used over
the last few years started to not being that awesome anymore. Python's
lack of a proper type system was annoying, C# is not that expressive,
and JavaScript is very messy.

So I started to look at both languages on the strongly typed side and on
the dynmaic side. And I liked both Haskell and LISP / Scheme.

Then I discovered what I wanted in Clojure. A great language, awesome
tooling, and a community around it that was large enough to matter.

What I love about Clojure is that the language itself is stupid simple.
Not that easy, if you're not that used to lisp and functional
programming. But still very simple. All the rest is built on top of the
language.

And it all made much more sense than to me. Everything is functions,
everything is immutable, except some stuff. But what is immutable still
got to be changed in a way that is more delibirate.

I love it.

What I always hated and still hate about OOP is that it is only elegant
when you know exactly how it will look. But with Clojure it is more
built in a way where we insted are trying to figure it out. Which is how
I am used to do programming anyways.

Clojure is what I will be doing on my spare time, I don't think I'll be
able to do much professional Clojure here in Bergen. But that's fine.
