---
title: "Review"
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
type: "post"
date: 2018-02-05T01:00:00+01:00
---

I got one of the Noodler's flex pens in the spring. It was cheap, and I
only ordered to verify that flex nibs was something I could get into.
And, of course, it was. The next step was a little bit more difficult.
Because I wanted something nicer, and hopefully less smelly. And, while
there are options, there are not a lot of them.

There was some from Franklin Christoph, two versions I think; I got the
news when I was in the middle of it. And I think Edison are selling the
same nibs.

Then you have the whole vintage market. And the last option, except for
the one I went with, was the Aurora limited edition one.

And then you have Pilot's Falcon and Metal Falcon.

I went with the Pilot Metal Falcon. Why? The Aurora was limited in
availability and way about my comfort zone. And the FC I want (Model 66
Solid Ice) is never available, when I check. And Edison is way too
expensive for me.

The Flacon and Metal Falcon are both very good options for what I
wanted. Something a little bit nicer, in the less than $300 price range.
And with a gold nib. The regular Falcon usually retails around $150, and
the Metal Falcon around $240.

What you get for an extra $90 is a bigger converter, a bigger and
heavier pen. The increased weight is because the pens made out of metal
instead of resin. Other than they look more or less identical; but I
think the Metal is a little bit larger. The reason I think you want the
Metal Falcon instead of the regular one is because it can old up to 1ml
of ink. While the CON-50 (the old standard converter) olds up to 0.5 and
the CON-40 (the new standard converter) holds up to 0.4ml.

I think the CON-70 is fantastic. What I ask for in a converter is enough
capacity that I can get through a day of a lot of writing without
problems. My Falcon can do that, without any problems, my Vanishing
Point on the other hand can't.

Fantastic pen, and I can without doubt recommend it if you are looking
for a good pen with a flexible gold nib.
