---
title: "#"
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
url: "/2018/08/29/03/1575"
type: "post"
date: 2018-08-29T09:09:32+02:00
---

Some comments to [@jack](<https://micro.blog/jack>)'s post:
[The
Downsides of a Static Site Generator Baty](https://jack.baty.net/2018/the-downsides-of-a-static-site-generator-drinking-caffeine/):

I have to agree that most people want something else than a static site
generator, but I do not think most people should go for WordPress
either; a host like Micro.blog or Squarespace looks like a much better
fit, because they are much easier to use and you don't have to keep them
updated.

When people say that PHP is a lot easier to install than go, ruby or
what ever they are wrong. It might be easier to find a One Click
Installer type host for WordPress than it is for something like Hugo.
Still, PHP is a fucking pain in the ass to install.

The Speed thing. Loading a static HTML file is faster, will always be
faster than running dynamic code and fetching stuff from a database.
There is no question. It is faster. It requires some compromises to do
it that way, but from a pure speed perspective: faster.

And the big bad question: databases or a bunch of markdown files?

As a programmer it is much easier to work with a database than a million
text files. If you have to deal with thousands of text files you either
have to implement some kind of cache or accept how slow it is. On the
other hand it is much easier for a power user to deal with than a
database.

Because we have a few different alternatives that can be the result of a
database as storage versus flat files as storage.

1.  Dynamic site with SQL as backend
2.  Dynamic site with flat files as backend
3.  Static site with SQL as backend
4.  Static site with flat files as backend.

The advantage of a static site is that the hosting is a lot simpler, you
just need a web server and that's it, while the advantage of a dynamic
site is that you can do a lot of interesting things with it that is
either very difficult or impossible with a static one. Like API's, admin
panels, to see what you are writing straight away on your site, or
features that require two way interaction between the site and the user,
like comments or webshops.

None of the options are better than the other, it all depends on
priorities, preferences and what kind of site you have and what kind of
user of it you are.
