---
title: "Lightroom and previews"
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
url: "/2018/02/19/Lightroom/1119"
type: "post"
date: 2018-02-19T01:00:00+01:00
---

I guess most beginners start out with the assumption that a "raw" file
is just a fancy image file. But learn as they move on that it isn't
really a image or a picture file like a jpeg, but rather a huge
collection of data that one can use to generate a image.

RAW files are big and powerful. Especially big.

Most people probably start out with a single lightroom library and then
they shoot, import, remove the pictures you don't want to keep and
continue like that until their laptop drive is full. And then I assume
many people do like me, move it to an external drive and start a new
one. And continue that process for way too long. A better way to go
about it is to add your external drive to a library on your internal
one. One library is easier to navigate, and there aren't really any good
reasons to keep multiple ones.

If you import some raw files into lightroom as they are. And don't do
anything but adding the files. Then the experience isn't the best,
because then lighroom have to generate a JPEG preview every single time
you open a new file. A better way to do this is to generate previews.
Lightroom has three different previews, standard, 1:1 and smart. The
standard sized preview is used when you look at a grid of photos and
when you look at a single image (before you zoom in) and the 1:1 are
used when you zoom in. While a smart preview is a small, lossy raw file
that you can use to edit your photos (when the external drive is offline
or if you want better performance).

I personally generate standard sized preivews for everything; they don't
take up much space; and makes everything a million times more enjoyable.
And I also generate smart previews for everything because they don't
that up that much space and makes it more enjoyable to use Lightroom.

Then I also generate 1:1 Previews that I keep for a limited time, when I
process images, and I re-generate them for selections of images when I
work on them. Be aware: they take up a shit load of disk space, but
makes it much faster when you zoom in and compare a lot of images. My
workflow is that I discard them as soon as I don't need them anymore.
