---
title: "Index Cards. What are they good for?"
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
type: "post"
date: 2018-11-26T09:00:00+01:00
---

The first thing I start to do when I get some new piece of stationary is
to start experimenting to find out what I like to use it for and not,
and then I start to compare to what I currently use for that and after a
while I figure out what the current "best thing" is for everything.

There are three things I use Index Cards for these days:

-   Capture.
-   As a heavy duty tool for task management.
-   To bring notes into meetings.

I love using Index Cards as a capture method, because I write it down,
and then I process it at a later point, and I can just throw it away. No
crossing out or anything like that. Sometimes, like now, when I need to
write a couple of blog posts before I leave town for a few days, I have
taken two cards and written down the title of both of them on its own
card. It is a method I use when there is something that is more
important than anything else. I write it down and put it down next to
the keyboard. The third thing is that sometimes I need to remember a
couple of things in a meeting, then I often just put it down on some
cards and bring that.

The running theme on where I think cards are great are for stuff where
you can sum it up in a few words or a short sentence and you are going
to get rid of it as soon as possible. But anything longer than a short
sentence is better served by a small or large notebook.
