---
title: "When to do client side and when to do server side"
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
url: "/2018/03/01/When/1168"
type: "post"
date: 2018-03-01T01:00:00+01:00
---

When you are doing a web project in 2018 you have the choice between
doing most of the heavy lifting server side or client side. The former
means that you render most or all of the HTML before it reaches the
browser, while the latter means that you only send a minimal HTML file
from the server and the browser will use API's and Javascript on the
browser to produce most of what the user end up seeing.

There are pro's and con's to both approaches, and there are times when
one is better than the other.

If you are developing something where the content is in focus, in other
words where the user of your web site are primarily consuming the
content like for example a blog then doing more of the work server side
is the better approach. Because it will load faster and less resources
have to be transferred to the client.

But, if you are developing something where there either is a combo or
where user interaction is the primary thing. What we call a web app. For
example Gmail, Facebook or Twitter, then doing more on the browser is
better. This is because it enables us to do more advanced functionality
that in the past was reserved for native apps.

Like always, it depends on what you are building. I see a lot of people
bringing in huge frameworks using for example Angular or React when it
is unnecessary and the only difference between that and doing it with
some backend language like Python or PHP + some plain JavaScript is a
lot more JavaScript assets than needed.

Just because a modern framework is there, doesn't mean it is the right
thing for everything. Or for all parts of what you are building
