---
title: "MacBook repair"
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
type: "post"
date: 2019-06-19T18:50:29+02:00
---

My MacBook Escape will hopefully be back home tomorrow. I handed it in to the largest Apple Norwegian Premium Reseller, and I think they are the offical repair place for most Apple products in Norway.

What happened was that my MacBook have had some issues booting the last few months, but jumping into recovery and a repair drive usually fixed it. Then in the beginning of June it refused to boot at all, but it worked fine to boot with my SuperDuper clone. So I handed it in. My hunch was that the drive was dead.

I have recived some updates from the technician as they have been looking into it, and they made it clear that it will all be covered by Apple, not because of warranty but because of cusomer protection laws in the EU (plus EFTA etc). First they ordered a new logic board (plus keyboard, trackpad and battery, and the casing  arround the keyboard etc; all of that is one "part" apparantly). Then they found out that they also had to replace the drive.

My guess was that it was just the drive that was broken, but I'm not going to complain about them giving me all the guts of a new machine for free, and I get to keep my stickers.

But I think Apple have lost a lot of money on this machine, because first I got a new machine when the keyboard broke, and now they replace most of the hardware again.

Now, I also have some worries about this whole "your computer is basically three parts" strategy. It probably makes sense for Apple, when they have to pay for it. But lets say someone got a MacBook Pro in 2016 and it works fine, but they want a new battery in 2021, and they're told: you have to replace more or less everything inside this computer to do that. How do you think they react?

I guess they have reasons, but there got to be a way for us, the consumers to replace stuff without having to pay for half a computer, either through them being able to recycle the parts or something.
