---
title: "Analog photography processes"
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
type: "post"
date: 2019-02-20T20:15:55+01:00
---

One of the two cameras that I have and use is my Nikon FM. It is a
manual 35mm film camera from the late 70s. It is fully manual, but it
has a built in light meter.

Starting to shoot with it was probably the thing after the initial DSLR
phase where I learnt the most about photography. You have to do all the
work yourself, and you really get it into your fingers how the different
settings work together.

I have this and a X-Pro 2. The way I deal with my analog process is that
I shoot some rolls, and then I hand them in five at a time. And get them
back a few days later, and then I scan them. By that time it is usually
some dust and other things on the scans. And they are never in order.
The next step after I have scanned them all is to add them to lightroom
and process them.

The result is that I get far from perfect images, I have no idea when I
took them etc. I get really annoyed about that for a minute, but then I
think: the X-Pro digital photography is for that.

Analog photography is more like some random snapshots from an event
where I chose to take analog pictures instead. They are messay and
awesome, and I always get at least a handful of images I really love
from each roll.

It is expensive, but shooting in full manual always feels like back to
basics.

You can of course get the same clean images from analog, but it requires
a lot of work, and that is not what I am doing with it.
