---
title: "My morning rituals"
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
type: "post"
date: 2019-03-22T08:27:27+01:00
---

I get up really fucking early. The reasons are simple, I prefer not
being in a hurry, I prefer being early at work because then I can leave
early and get some shit done before people show up.

So my ritual is to get up between 0415 and 0425; usually closes to the
latter. Then I put on some podcast or audiobook, get into the bathroom
and get ready. Get back to our bedroom, put on some clothes and go
downstairs with Luna.

I quickly start the coffee maker that I always prefer before going to
bed and then I take her out and bring her on a short walk. Usually being
back when the coffee maker is done.

Then I bring her up to Ingri. Before I fill my travel mug with coffee
and a large mug. Take both into the living room where I start to pack up
my bag, except that I review my Bullet Journal while I drink coffee.
Then at 0515 I go upstairs and say goodbye to both. Get down pack the
rest of my crap and walk down to the train.

I'm usually there about 0535. Giving me time to complete almost three
French lessons in Duolingo before sitting down at the train.

Then I usually exchange by Airpods for my ATX headphones.

The rest is a 40 minute train ride and a 20ish busride. I do not mind it
at all, the time flies fast as I listen to music, podcasts, audiobooks;
or read in Instapaper or on my Kindle; watch stuff I have stored offline
from Netflix or Plex; or I play my Switch.
