---
title: "In my bag"
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
url: "/2019/04/18/bag"
type: "post"
date: 2019-04-18T19:45:54+02:00
---

I've been meaning to post this for a really long time. But every time
I've gotten to it something new I planned to have in it was on the way
to me. This is not just in my bag, but also stuff I have on me, in my
pockets etc.


## In my pockets / on my person {#in-my-pockets-on-my-person}

-   Glasses. Cheap Specsavers storebrand. They basically look like
    something Elvis Costello would have worn.
-   Apple Watch: Series 4: space gray with a sports loop.
-   Trove Wallet. Red and blue.
-   iPhone 8 Plus, space gray with a popsocket.
-   Keys: just a plain key bring with one of Luna's old dog tags on it.
-   A piece of cloth to clean my glasses.
-   Bellroy Field Notes case, with Field Notes, some Index Cards and a
    Golden Bear pencil in the spine
-   A YStudio Fountain pen is always in my pocket.


## In my Bag. {#in-my-bag.}

-   Misc cables: USB-C to USB-C, USB-A to micro-USB, Lightning USB-C,
    USB-A Apple Watch charger.
-   Mophie XXL powerbank.
-   Nintendo Switch
-   Kindle Paperwhite 2008.
-   Nock Co Seed A5 case, with a LT1917 Bulletjournal notebook and a Lamy
    1.
-   Nock Co Pencil Case with a lot of Golden Bears. I use it to bring
    sharp pencils to work and bring dull ones back. Usually around 12 in
    it.
-   Audio-technica ATH-M50x headphones
-   A few Lightning to jack dongles.
-   LT A few lines a day 5 year journal.
-   My work ID/key card, paracetanol, fishermans friends.
-   My 24H Water bottle. Keeps my icewater cold for at least 24 hours.
-   Contigo coffee mug. I'm going to replace this with a more durable one
    in not too long.
