---
title: "Yoga"
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
url: "/2019/05/09/Yoga"
type: "post"
date: 2019-05-09T21:08:51+02:00
---

One of my goals for 2019 is to loose some weight and get into shape. The
main thing though is to get something started that will make sure I'll
be healthy in the long run. In other words: I do not care that much how
much I loose this month, next month or this year even. But rather that
it is more of a lifestyle change.

I have been into different kinds of excerise in the past, running, going
to a gym, rowing machines, swimming but none of it really worked for me.
I'm not sure why. So I decided to see if I could find something
different this time. What I landed on was Yoga, because it didn't
require any equiptment or a proper gym. The latter is important because
I do not have a huge amount of time for this, and the less time I have
to spend getting from and to excerise the better it is. Also: if I can
do it inside it is a huge bonus, because then I can't use the shitty
weather as an excuse.

This is something I started in the end of January, and I'm still doing
it. What I really enjoy about doing yoga is that it doesn't feel like
I'm really working out, something that is great when you don't really
enjoy most kinds of excerise, and you notice the difference in both
strenght and flexibility more or less straight away. I have way less
problems with stiff muscles and pain in my back, shoulders etc after I
started doing this.

The way I got started was that I searched for Yoga in the app store
downloaded the first 30 apps or so. Deleted all the worst ones and
continued doing that until I had a small handful of usable ones. None of
them are great, but some are usable. The first few weeks I used one
called Daily Yoga. It is pretty good, you have you video based guided
yoga. It was really helpful in the beginning. But then I felt like I
wanted something different, more like "I want to do yoga for 15 minutes
tell me what to do". The only good app I found for doing that is called
Pocket Yoga. It is pretty awesome. There are five different options and
some options to configuring how long etc. It is great if you want
something guided. They also have an companion app for desgining your own
sequences.

My feeling is that Yoga is very much about finding what works for you.
What I do these days is that I just track it with my Apple Watch and do
it unguided. And I use an app called Yoga Studio to look at poses, and I
try to remember at least one new one each week.

I also bought some books, they have give me a lot more than any of the
apps have. This one is my favourite:
[Namaslay:
Rock Your Yoga Practice](https://www.amazon.com/Namaslay-Rock-Practice-Greatness-Limits/dp/1628601124). It is fun and awesome.

There are a lot of yoga gear available. I didn't use any when I started
out, and I didn't really have any until very recently. It is helpful but
not neccessary. I bought a starter pack of a mat, two blocks and a
strap. It helps, but it is in no may neccessary to buy any before you
know if you like it.
