---
title: "Why rolling your own emacs?"
author: ["Eivind Hjertnes"]
draft: false
url: "/2019/05/05/Emacs"
type: "post"
date: 2019-05-05T19:28:26+02:00
---

This might not be for you, but if you're into being able to configure
and make your own text editing environment it might be for you.

Then you have the option of using a starter pack like Doom or building
your own. I used to love Spacemacs and Doom until I started to become
frustrated by the complexity under the simple configuration system, and
the limits of it.

The result was a six month period where I experimented with all kinds of
starter packs, my own configuration multiple times before I finally
learned enough and found a setup that worked for me.

I do recommend doing your own config and I do recommend learning the
default keybindings. But when you do start with no packages except
use-package and add stuff as you see a need. And learn to add them using
use-package from day one.

On no packages, the fewer packages you add the faster and more stable
emacs will be. And emacs makes a lot more sense if you use the default
keybindings.

My configuration are used on windows, Mac and Linux. This makes it more
complex but only very few configuration items are affected by this. But
it makes it more complex.

The way I deal with my configuration is that I have a very low bar for
adding new stuff to my configuration, but I also regularly remove
everything that doesn't add real value.

Emacs is a lot less fancy than something like vscode, but also a lot
more powerful.
